
trooper class.
◆	 A single character may be given the  

scientist class.
◆	 A single character may be given the  

scout class.
To qualify, the character must pass the Unity 
Field Aptitude Test. If the character has a 
background or history that fits in the related 
class (military for troopers, academic for 
scientists, exploration and wilderness for 
scouts), they automatically qualify due to prior 
experience.
◆	 Trooper Backgrounds: Military Brat,  

War-Torn Hell Hole
◆	 Trooper Classes: Soldier, Mercenary, 

Enforcer
◆	 Scientist Backgrounds: Tech-guild, 

Research outpost
◆	 Scientist Classes: Scientist, Technician, 

Hacker

26



Your Colony Crew

◆	 Scout Backgrounds: Long Term Space any character that leaves the Planetfall 
Mission, Drifter campaign could be imported into another 

◆	 Scout Classes: Explorer, Scavenger, Five Parsecs game. 
Negotiator You may retire characters from Planetfall if 

You may also attempt to pass the test manually. you want. For example, you might decide that 
Each character can only test once. The test is some of your characters want to strike out on 
conducted by a series of examiners and AI their own.
modules which will assess the qualities of a Imported Equipment
given candidate with their psych profile and 
current operational needs. Roll 1d6: Tactics and Bug Hunt characters do not normally 

carry their equipment with them (it is, after all, 
D6 RESULT military property).

1-2 The character fails the aptitude test and Five Parsecs from Home characters may carry 
is not approved for class training. over any personal equipment, provided it 

The character is approved for a random has a rules function within the game. For 
3 class. Roll 1D6 again: 1-2 is trooper,  example, as Planetfall does not have a Seize 

3-4 is scientist, 5-6 is scout. the Initiative roll, items that affect this will not 

4-6 The character is approved for a class have any effect. 
of your choice. What constitutes a character’s personal 

equipment is left to the player to decide. The 
Progression for Imported Characters intention is not to let one character make off 
Players of other Five Parsecs from Home with everything the crew owned. 
rule sets should note that progression works Note that some weapons have different 
differently in Planetfall. You are encouraged to profiles in Planetfall. Characters may either 
use the new progression system while in the retain the original version or acquire the 
Planetfall campaign. Planetfall counterpart.
Characters are always brought in with the Characters transferring out of Planetfall may 
profiles they had in their parent system. Any keep their weaponry. They can only bring 
unused XP is kept but other advancement reasonably personal equipment – you cannot 
values, such as Bug Hunt’s Reputation, have no load up with 20 pistols and give them to 
value in Planetfall. The same applies in reverse your new Five Parsecs from Home crew. 
when moving to another campaign. Planetfall-specific weapons, including ones 
Intangibles such as Patrons and Rivals do not gained from research, cannot be replaced in 
matter in Planetfall. another campaign.

Credits have no value in Planetfall, and no 
Multiple Campaigns at Once Credits can be earned during the campaign for 
A character can only be in one place at once. use elsewhere.
If a character moves to Planetfall, they can no 
longer adventure with their old crew or squad, 
for example.
At the end of a campaign (or if a character 
leaves a campaign for any reason) characters 
can transfer campaigns. For example, 

27



Combat Rules

Combat 
rules

Introduction to Combat
This chapter provides all the rules and Veteran Players
information needed to conduct the tactical Veterans of other Five Parsecs game titles 
miniatures game using a tabletop battlefield. should read the combat rules carefully. Some 
The Campaign rules (page 48) cover how to rules have been tailored to the characters and 
determine the enemies you face and what combat environments of Planetfall.  
troops you will have available. 

The Battle Round Sequence
The game is played in a series of battle rounds Reaction Roll
(or simply ‘rounds’), during which every figure The player rolls and assigns Initiative dice. 
on the table has a chance to act. Each round is 
subdivided into phases, during each of which Quick Actions Phase
certain activities take place. Any player-controlled character assigned an 
Carry out each phase in order, completing all Initiative die equal to or below their Reaction 
activities before moving on to the next one. score acts in this phase. The player can choose 

the order in which these characters act.
1.	 Start Phase Enemy Actions Phase
2.	 Reaction Roll All hostile forces act in this phase, including any 
3.	 Quick Actions Phase presented by Contact markers. 

4.	 Enemy Actions Phase Slow Actions Phase
5.	 Slow Actions Phase Any player-controlled character assigned an 

Initiative die higher than their Reaction score 
6.	 End Phase acts in this phase. In the event a character lacks 

an Initiative die for any reason, they also act in 
Start Phase this phase. The player can choose the order in 
Any activities described as occurring at the which these characters act.
start of a round take place in this phase. If End Phase
multiple Start Phase events are taking place 
simultaneously, resolve them in any order In this phase, you check to see if the battle is 
you like. at an end, whether due to no player-controlled 

forces remaining on the table or because the 

28



Combat Rules

scenario rules dictate that it is over.  If not, any An easy way to avoid losing track is leaving the 
activities described as happening at the end of die next to each character until they have acted. 
a round take place now. If multiple End Phase Turn the Quick Actions to show a 1 and the Slow 
events are taking place simultaneously, resolve Actions to show a 6, then remove the die once 
them in any order you like. that character acts. 

Note that the enemy does NOT roll for 
The Reaction Roll Reactions. All opposing forces act in the Enemy 
The Reaction Roll determines the phase in Action Phase.
which player-controlled characters will act. First, 
roll the same number of D6 as you have player 
