of customizing is a fantastic way of making the Also listed are any prerequisite research 
game feel more like your own. applications that must have been completed to 

access that Building option.

Buildings table

BUILDING BUILD POINTS PREREQUISITES

Academy 8 BP Non-Linear Physics
Educating young colonists to be scientists is an investment in the long-term 

survival of the colony.

Earn +1 Research Point every campaign turn.
Adapted protective 8 BP High Level Adaptation
shield installation Local building materials provide increased resilience.

Increase Colony Integrity by +3.
Advanced 4 BP –

manufacturing plant Locally adapted weapons and hardware require specialized 
manufacturing techniques.

A prerequisite to produce any Tier 1 equipment.
Advanced medical 5 BP Genetic Advancement

center Additional sick beds combined with newly developed medical remedies 
will increase recovery from trauma.

In the Recovery step, you may select any one character and 
reduce their injury recovery time by 1 turn. 

98



Colonies

BUILDING BUILD POINTS PREREQUISITES

AI-assisted school 6 BP AI Theories
Much rote learning can be handled by AI-enhanced virtual teachers.

All new characters enter the campaign with 2 XP. 
Biological adaptation 10 BP High Level Adaptation

research site Your team is now capable of matching local genetic material to potential 
augmentation paths.

Receive 2 Augmentation Points (see page 105).
Bot maintenance bay 4 BP AI Theories

Dedicated bot repair facilities greatly improve readiness.

Repaired bots can now be deployed during the same campaign turn.
Civilian market 4 BP –

Availability of local and off-world consumer goods help the colonists feel like 
this is a real home and not just an outpost.

Gain 1 Story Point.
Colony shield network 8 BP Non-Linear Physics

Large scale power shields are resource intensive but directed partial shields 
can be deployed as needed, to anticipate incoming threats.

You may mitigate 1 Colony Damage each time you receive Colony Damage. 
Note that some sources will state the damage cannot be mitigated.

99



Colonies

BUILDING BUILD POINTS PREREQUISITES

Cybernetics facility 6 BP AI Theories
Cybernetic augmentation helps to achieve greater biological adaptation.

Receive 1 Augmentation Point (see page 105)
Damage containment 4 BP Advanced Manufacturing

center Allows coordination of repair and emergency maintenance crews to minimize 
the effects of colony damage.

Your colony repair rate is increased by +1.
Drone turret network 6 BP –

AI controlled sentry turrets for point defense.

Gain 1 point of Colony Defenses.
Early warning system 4 BP Military Doctrine

A comprehensive sensor system to alert security forces of possible attacks.

Gain 1 point of Colony Defenses.
Environmental control 8 BP Theoretical Physics

facility The default colony environmental systems are adequate but can hardly be said 
to be comfortable. Improved systems ensure pleasant temperatures and 

humidity levels at all times.

Gain 1 Story Point. Increase Colony Morale by +2.
Expanded living facility 4 BP –

Additional housing and life support allows for more staff.

You may expand your character roster by 2.
Hardened life support 6 BP Environmental Research

system Safeguarding the temperature, hydration and emergency 
food supply systems is vital.

Increase Colony Integrity by +2.
Heavy construction site 8 BP –

Improved machinery to construct larger facilities and work with new 
raw materials that are locally available.

Earn +1 Build Point per campaign turn.
High tech 4 BP Completed Advanced Manufacturing Plant

manufacturing plant State of the art weaponry requires the production of custom machinery.

A prerequisite to produce any Tier 2 equipment.
Locally adapted food 4 BP Environmental Research

production site Agricultural techniques usually must be adapted to fit local conditions.

Increase Colony Morale by +5. One-time bonus.

100



Colonies

BUILDING BUILD POINTS PREREQUISITES

Med-Evac shuttle facility 4 BP Military Doctrine
 Drone shuttles allow critical cases to be returned to a medical facility from the field.

Once per campaign turn, when a character becomes a casualty in battle you 
may opt to have them MedEvac’ed. After the battle they will roll twice on the 

injury table, picking the better result.
You must make this decision at the point a figure becomes a casualty; you cannot 

wait and decide later.
Military barracks 8 BP Military Doctrine

Upgraded training facilities for the security forces.

All current and future troopers gain 3 XP immediately.
Military training facility 5 BP –

Colony life is dangerous and regular refresher training is vital to keep 
personnel safe and secure.

When doing the Experience Progression campaign step, you may have any one 
character conduct military training to earn +1 XP. This can be combined with any 

mission experience, but characters cannot train while in Sick Bay.
Militia training camp 4 BP –

To improve security and safety, a colonial militia can be formed 
to patrol the perimeter.

Any civvies brought on a mission will have Reactions 2.

101



Colonies

BUILDING BUILD POINTS PREREQUISITES

Patrol base 4 BP –
Forward operating bases for colonial militia teams.

Gain 1 point of Colony Defenses.
Protective shelter 6 BP –

Improved shelters reduce the risk to the colonist population.

Increase Colony Integrity by +2.
Rapid response network 4 BP Military Doctrine

Improved vehicle access for the colonial militia.

Gain 1 point of Colony Defenses.
Recreational facility 6 BP Social Theories

The development of new recreational options that are viable in the colony 
environment can greatly increase performance.

Gain 1 Story Point. Increase Colony Morale by +1.
Remote extraction site 8 BP Environmental Research

Small drill sites are established to retrieve additional resources.

Each campaign turn, roll 1D6: On 5-6, receive one additional Raw Material. 
Remote research station 8 BP Environmental Research

Scanning and measuring stations can be deployed to further study 
the environment.

Each campaign turn, roll 1D6: On 5-6, receive one additional RP.
Research laboratory 8 BP Theoretical Physics

Improved facilities for the development of advanced scientific principles.

Earn +1 Research Point every campaign turn.
Resource processing 8 BP –

With resources in short supply, the processing and recycling must be 
as efficient as possible.

Each time you receive Raw Materials from any source, you receive 
+1 Raw Materials.

Satellite launch facility 6 BP Social Theories
 Satellite coverage allows for improved long range resource scans.

Randomly select three map sectors that have not yet been Exploited.
Increase the Resource Value of each by +1. If the sectors have not yet been 

Explored, add +1 when they are. 
Gain 1 Mission Data.

102



Colonies

BUILDING BUILD POINTS PREREQUISITES

School of theoretical 12 BP Theoretical Physics
sciences As more scientists are trained, increasing specialization becomes possible.

Earn +1 Research Point every campaign turn.
Scientific training facility 6 BP Non-Linear Physics

Improved education for research personnel.

All current and future scientists gain +3 XP.
Scout drone network 8 BP –

Scout missions can be supplemented by drone patrols to 
help improve mission intel.

Any sector that is revealed to have a Hazard level of 5 or 6 is reduced by 1.
Gain 1 Mission Data.

Scout facilities 6 BP Environmental Research
Improved training and support facilities for the scout team.

All current and future scouts gain +3 XP.
Gain 1 Mission Data.

103



Colonies

Milestone Buildings
These buildings each contribute one campaign See page 156 for details on what happens 
milestone as well as provide other game when Milestones are completed.
advantages similar to other buildings.

BUILDING BUILD 
POINTS REQUIREMENT

Galactic comms relay 10 BP Theoretical Physics
Establishing a large-scale communications facility helps to fully integrate the colony 

into galactic society. It also allows the continued spread of ideas and influences.

This grants 1 Milestone.
Add 1 Story Point.

Genetic adaptation 15 BP High Level Adaptation
facility With a wealth of scientific data collected, large-scale adaptation to the local 

environment becomes possible. This allows both adjustment to vulnerabilities as 
well as rendering the colonists perfectly adapted to planetary conditions.

This grants 1 Milestone.
Gain 2 Augmentation Points

Orbital facility Col2o0 BnP ies Advanced Manufacturing
e

Spacefaring vessels are easier ceonsch Tree
T tructed in orbital facilities. CB Colony Bot Upgrad

They also allow easier connection to tradgere rsosu tes. For a coTlhoenoyry to becom e TR Trooper Upgrade

self-sufficient it must be ahbel reo u
tes to pro

to interface erachs-ily with Ssepcaocned afrayr Tihnego rtyraffi c.
This diagram illustrates t

It excludes Res a
s GR Grunt Upgrade  

your colony technologies. 
This graunrrtesn 1c iMes such a

Milestone  
ses to in-game c ilestone. New Weapon  

derived bonu Points, which 
or Augmentation Building  

Colony Morale Add 5 Colonndy f uMrthoerra her with costs a le.
enetic CB 1 KP

Terraforming  15 BP are included toget
ch, Build

hEin
gs, G

apntveirrso. nmental Adaptationa t r ng plant   +   
control center details in the Resear

- ec  ma uf c u i
While Alaurggmee-snctaalteio

n, or Armory c
 terraforming is prohib3iti 

High t h n
 vely expen cosnivtaei,n tmheen tfi cresntt setreps 

towards atmospheric adjustments can be 3 ini tiaDta
mage

ed, laying the groundwork
acturing   

Advanced Manuf rbital facility
for future climate man3 ip 

O
ulation. CB Combat Skill +1

RP Investment of 3
isted school   +   

 This grants 1 Miles4 to neAI.-ass
aintenance bay

Increase Integrity b4
ot m

y +3. peed 6"
 

AI Theories    B
etics facility   +

CB S
   

4 4
  Cybern

RP Investment of  system
ned life support

GR Adapted armor

Tracking your Tech  ✓3 arde
  H

production site    +   
ly adapted food 

3 ocal

We have included a Tech Tree on pages 106-1 07.   L
n site

3
Use the check boxes on this to track how   Remote extractio

n
 research statio

Environmental Research   

many Research Points you have invested f 2 ✓3
