
Missions

The enemy is willing to sell themselves Player Forces
dearly and the longer the fight drags on, the You may deploy 6 characters from your roster. 
more they will dig their heels in. At the end  
of each battle round, roll 1D6. On 6, a Randomly select a point along any battlefield 
randomly selected enemy figure gains edge by rolling a random direction die in the 
1 KP as a result of gritted teeth, technological center of the table. The indicated point is where 
enhancements, combat drugs, or bloody- your characters enter from during the first 
minded determination. battle round.

At the end of the first round, randomly 
Delve Mission determine a second point along any battlefield 

edge. This is an additional exit that your 
You have located and gained access to a scanners pick up.
site left behind by inhabitants of this world, 
thousands of years ago. As you enter, strange Opposition
power systems spring to life and indecipherable In the first Enemy Phase, place 4 Delve Hazard 
glyphs illuminate the halls. markers on the table with 1 marker in each 

table quarter. Each is placed 1D6” randomly 
Map Location from the center of the table quarter. If this 
A map sector with an Ancient Site. would place one within 3” of a crew member, 

move it towards the center of the table until it is 
Table Setup no longer within 3”.
Use a  3x3-foot table. At the start of each Enemy Phase, if there are 
The table should be set up to resemble the currently less than 4 Delve Hazard markers, 
interior of an ancient alien facility. You can use place one addition marker in the center of 
factory or urban style terrain or build strange- the table (or as close as possible). Only one new 
looking walls and halls. If you have floor tiles, marker is placed per round and only if there is 
you can also use them instead, though in this not currently 4 on the table.
case make sure to have plenty of rooms and 
connecting corridors. When playing on floor From Round 2 onwards, each Delve Hazard is 
tiles, we suggest measuring distances normally moved 3” in a random direction, halting if they 
instead of converting to grid movement. You make base contact with an obstacle. 
can even combine tiles and regular terrain to Delve Hazards are revealed if at any point a 
represent a delve that combines labyrinthine crew member is within 3” and Line of Sight. 
and open terrain. Roll 1D6 immediately:
After setting up the terrain, place a Delve 1D6 HAZARD ACTION
Device marker in the center of each table 
quarter. These represent machinery that you Place a Sleeper figure 
must interact with to unlock the location of (see page 154). 
the artifact. You can shift these somewhat if 1-2 Enemy The Sleeper will 
they would look better within or adjacent to a immediately fire 
particular terrain feature. its weapon. 

3-4 Trap Roll on the Delve Trap 
There are no Uncertain Features or Battlefield table, below.
Conditions. 

5-6 Environmental Roll on the 
hazard Environmental Hazard 

table, below.

130



Missions

Delve Trap table

D100 DELVE 
TRAP EFFECTS

01-08 Turret Place something to indicate a gun turret where the Delve Hazard was. 
At the end of each Enemy Phase it fires at the closest visible non-Sleeper, 

non-bot figure. Roll to hit with +0 Combat Skill. 
It strikes with +0 Damage but negates Saving Throws. 

The turret can be knocked out. Attackers must roll a 6 to hit with ranged attacks 
or a 5+ with a Melee attack (add Combat Skill to the roll normally).  

A damage roll of 4+ destroys the turret.
A scientist moving into base contact can shut down the turret by rolling 

4+ on a Savvy test.
09-19 Paralysis The character that revealed the Delve Hazard cannot move or take any actions 

when next activated. They may roll 1D6+Toughness with a score of 8+ shaking 
off the paralysis. Scouts may roll twice and take the best die result. 

20-30 Blockage The area within 1” of the Delve Hazard becomes Impassable. A scout may move 
into base contact to remove the Blockage by rolling 5+ on a Savvy test. 

31-40 Laser beam The character that revealed the Delve Hazard takes a weapons hit with  
+0 Damage.

41-46 Explosive trap Every character within 3” of the Delve Hazard takes a weapons hit with  
+0 damage. If there is partial cover between a character and the Hazard,  

a 4+ roll on 1D6 is required to score a hit.
47-60 Sleepers! Randomly place 2 Sleepers within 6” of the Hazard. 

They do not activate this round. 
61-68 Alarm Until the alarm is shut down, a Sleeper arrives at the center of a random 

battlefield edge each future Enemy Phase. Shutting down the alarm requires 
moving into base contact with the Delve Hazard and rolling 6+ on a Savvy test.

69-80 Gas Everyone within 1” of the Delve Hazard is affected by the gas. 
At the start of the Enemy Phase in the next battle round, the gas expands to 

2” radius and then 3” radius during the following battle round.
Affected characters must roll 5+ to avoid being overcome. Scouts may add +1 

to the roll. Overcome characters will move in a random direction when they next 
activate and cannot take any actions. If an overcome character finishes their 

move outside the gas cloud, they must roll 3+ to recover (+1 bonus for scouts). 
81-92 Security Place one additional Delve Hazard marker in the center of the table and one 

systems at the center of a random battlefield edge. 
93-00 Lock-down One of the Delve Device (determined randomly) is locked down. 

To unlock it, you must make base contact with it and roll 6+ on a Savvy test. 
Once successful, you can then roll on the normal Delve Device table to 

determine how to activate it. A natural 1 on the unlock roll spawns a Sleeper 
at the center of a random battlefield edge. 

131



Missions

Environmental Hazard table

D100 ENVIRONMENTAL 
HAZARD EFFECTS

01-15 Confused signal A random Delve Device is moved 1D6+2” in a random 
direction. Reroll if it would be off the table. 

16-24 High security The area within 4” and Line of Sight of the Delve Hazard becomes 
high security. Any non-Sleeper figure that is within this area at 

any point of their activation must make a D6 roll.  
On 6, a Sleeper is placed at the nearest battlefield edge point. 

The status continues for the rest of the mission.
25-39 Unstable Area The area within 3” of the Delve Hazard is unstable 

(even if not in Line of Sight of the marker). Any figure moving 
through this area or firing a weapon into, out of, or through the 
