12-25 Environmental risk the Post-Mission Finds table (see page 134).
26-36 Enemy super weapon Environmental Risk
37-48 Virus Long range scans have detected strange 
49-63 Mega predators atmospheric anomalies that appear to be 
64-77 Wildlife aggression intensifying storms and radiation.
78-91 Robot rampage Randomly select 3 map sectors. They can be 
92-00 Slyn assault enemy held. These sectors are experiencing the 

anomalies.
The same Calamity cannot occur twice in a 
single campaign. If you experience a Calamity At the end of each campaign turn, roll a D6 
that has already happened to your colony, take for each anomalous sector on the map:  
the next option on the table (wrapping around 1-4 indicates no effect; 5-6 results in an 
to the start if needed). environmental flare-up, in which case, roll again:

165



Campaign Development

D6 FLARE-UP Your incessant patrolling has brought some 
A random crew member on your rewards. Randomly select three map sectors 

1-2 roster is injured and must spend  and increase their Resource ratings by  
one campaign turn in Sick Bay. +1 each. 

3-4 The colony sustains 1 point of Colony Robot Rampage
Damage, bypassing defenses.

Suddenly, angry robots spill across the surface. 
5 No effect They resemble the Sleepers detected before but 

6 Another random sector develops appear to be acting as sentries.
an anomaly. In every mission you play, place a marker in 

To clear each anomaly, you must carry out a each of the 6 terrain features closest to the 
Patrol Mission in the sector with the following center of the table.  
modifications:  

When a figure is within 12” and Line of Sight  
◆	 1 additional Contact is placed on a random of a feature with a marker, roll 1D6 for the 

battlefield edge every battle round. feature. Multiple features can be revealed at 
◆	 Once all three Objectives are clear, a the same time.

character must move to one of the Objectives ◆	 Each die that rolls a 1-3 is removed with 
(your choice) and roll 1D6+Savvy, scoring no effect.
a 6 or better (remember, scientists may roll 

◆	
twice and pick the highest result). When this Each 4-5 adds a Sleeper with a Beam 
succeeds, you have collected the samples Weapon where the marker was (see  
needed to counteract the anomalies in this page 154).
sector, clearing it. ◆	 Each 6 adds a Sleeper with a Beam 

The Calamity ends when every sector has been Weapon and another marker is placed in 
cleared. Each anomaly you clear allows you to the closest terrain feature to the one just 
gather 2 units of Raw Materials. revealed. This can result in the newly placed 

marker being revealed immediately. 
Mega Predators Each time you kill a Sleeper outside of a Delve 
Your scouts report seeing particularly large and mission, if you can move to the location where 
menacing wildlife when they are patrolling. it was destroyed before the battle ends, roll 
Each time a Lifeform is revealed, roll 1D6. On a 1D6+Savvy (remember, scientists roll twice 
6, the specimen has 1 additional KP and the and pick the best score). 
die is rolled again, adding KP until you don’t A test result of 5+ finds a Sleeper chip. 
roll a 6. A failed test destroys the chip. 
To eradicate the nest, you must carry out  Once you have located 5 Sleeper chips, you 
Patrol Missions (see page 121). Each time you can send out the shut-down signal when you 
complete an objective, an additional Contact is return to your colony, ending the Calamity. 
placed on a random battlefield edge. Mark this Add 4 Research Points as your scientists 
Contact in some fashion so you can tell it apart. dissect the chips afterwards.
When it is revealed, all Lifeforms placed have 
+2 KP added to their profile (this is total, not 
cumulative with the +1 for this Calamity). You 
must kill 5 such Lifeforms to end the Calamity. 

166



Campaign Development

Slyn Assault After you have completed your mission for the 
The Slyn are stepping up their attacks. turn, check to see if the Swarm is spreading: 
Until you have fended off this latest Slyn Roll a D6 for each adjacent map sector to a 
assault, every time you undertake a mission Swarm sector. You can choose the order you 
with a chance of Slyn interference, you must want to test them in. Once you roll a 6, the 
roll twice to see if they interfere. If both rolls Swarm infests that sector as well, and no 
indicate interference, you will automatically more rolls are made this turn. If you test every 
encounter 8 Slyn. adjacent sector without rolling a 6 the Swarm 

are currently laying low.
Keep track of the number of Slyn you kill. Once 
you have killed 30, they decide to step down The Swarm prevents all access to sectors they 
their offensive. The Calamity ends once this occupy. If they infest a sector held by an enemy, 
occurs. You may immediately add 2 grunts the enemy loses the sector unless it was their 
to your Colony Tracking Sheet as the lessons final sector they held, in which case they 
learned allow you to train up new soldiers. evacuate to another random map sector. 

If the Swarm infest one of the 8 sectors 
Swarm Infestation adjacent to your colony, they will begin 
The hostile alien lifeforms known as The Swarm attacking your perimeter. Each campaign turn, 
have begun infesting the world. roll 1D6 for each infested sector adjacent: On 
Randomly select a map sector that is not 1-2, nothing occurs. On 3-5, your colony takes 
enemy held. It is immediately infested with damage equal to the die roll. On a 6, you take 6 
large numbers of the murderous aliens known Damage and one of your grunts is killed. 
as the Swarm. If the Swarm would expand into your colony 
The Swarm refuse all attempts at interaction, sector, you must fight a Pitched Battle mission 
resorting to immediate, frenzied attack when next campaign turn. 
sapient life is within several kilometers. The To defeat the Swarm, you must kill them off. 
only saving grace is that they can occasionally This uses the Skirmish mission. Victory clears 
be lured away by the use of drones. out the sector (for now). 

167



Campaign Development

Swarm: The Calamity ends when the cure is discovered. 
Speed:	 6” Due to your medical advances, you may reduce 
Combat Skill:	 +1 any injury recovery times for injured characters 
Toughness:	 4 by a total of 4 turns spread among characters as 
Brawling:	 Claws, +1 Damage you see fit (2 characters reduced by 2 turns, 4 
Ranged Attack:	 none characters reduced by 1 turn each, etc.). You can 
Roll 2D6+4 for the number of Swarm save any of this effect for later.
encountered (make sure you are loaded for Wildlife Aggression
hard combat). The lifeforms are far more aggressive than 
The Calamity ends when every sector has usual. Something appears to be agitating them. 
been cleared. Your researchers speak of a Controller that must 
Overcoming the Swarm allows you to recruit be located and destroyed. 
one trooper to your roster if you have a Any Contact reveal that places Lifeforms will 
vacancy. You may save this for a later time. This place 1 additional Lifeform. It is placed in the 
recruit does not count against your available nearest terrain feature to where the marker was. 
replacements. To find the Controller, you must play out a 
Virus Hunt mission. Each time you reveal a Lifeform, 
A dangerous virus is tearing through your roll 1D6 per Lifeform figure. On a 6, it is 
colony. the Controller. The Controller will be of the 

standard type but has 3 additional KP added 
Randomly select two characters on your to the profile. The Controller will always attempt 
roster and roll 1D6 for each. If the roll is 1-5, to move towards the nearest battlefield edge by 
this is how many Virus Points they have the shortest route possible and, upon reaching 
accumulated. If the roll is a 6, they immediately it, it will flee. You will have to carry out another 
fall ill. Hunt. If the path is blocked by a character, the 
At the end of each campaign turn, select three Controller will move in a random direction, 
characters on your roster. If they have no Virus adding +1” to its movement rate. It will only 
Points, roll as above. If they do have Virus enter brawling combat if this random move 
Points, increase the amount by +1. A total of 6 requires it to.
means they fall ill. Killing the Controller and moving into base 
Once a character falls ill, they must stay in Sick contact with where it fell to confirm it is dead 
Bay (they are being quarantined) and can take ends the Calamity. 
no actions of any kind. Completing this Calamity gives you an 
To overcome the virus, you need to synthesize increased understanding of the world. You may 
a cure. This is done by playing the Hunt add 1 Augmentation Point. 
mission. Each time you complete the mission 
you receive two points of Cure Data. Roll 
2D6 at the end of each campaign turn before 
rolling for the spread of the virus. On a roll 
equal to or below the total amount of Cure 
Data, you have enough to start producing the 
cure. The virus no longer spreads, and your 
characters recover immediately.

168



Campaign Development

Mission Data
Gathering Mission Data is one of the keys to Second Mission Data Breakthrough
unravelling what the history of this world is and You have discovered multiple important 
where it may have originated from. resource caches. Randomly select four map 
Mission Data is obtained from missions you sectors. Each of them that is not currently 
undertake in the field as well as completing Explored is Explored immediately. Then 
certain Research projects and Buildings. You increase the current Resource value by +2. 
also receive Mission Data when you complete a This can turn an Exploited sector into an 
Campaign Milestone. Explored sector.

Each time you received Mission Data, process Third Mission Data Breakthrough
it: Roll 1D6; if the roll is equal to or below the This world continues to intrigue you. 
amount of Mission Data you have acquired, Randomly select two sectors, marking them 
you have made a significant Mission Data for Investigation. 
Breakthrough. Reduce the Mission Data by the 
die roll, then consult the list below. Fourth Mission Data Breakthrough

You have finally uncovered the information you 
First Mission Data Breakthrough need to put all the pieces together. This is the 
You have discovered the location of 2 Ancient final Breakthrough, and after this point, Mission 
Sites. Place them randomly on your map.  Data no longer has any value. Roll D100 on the 
Fully exploring each of these Sites awards you table below to determine what you find:
1 point of Mission Data in addition to any 
other rewards. 

D100 BREAKTHROUGH DESCRIPTION

01-10 Ancient Colony The remnants of ruins make it clear that this was once a colony, 
though whoever settled here has completely disappeared, leaving 
no traces of biological remains. Why they left is for the historians to 
decipher, but it is perhaps reassuring to know that others stood here 

before you and braved the same dangers.

Add 2 Ancient Sites to your map in random sectors.
This Breakthrough also provides a bonus if you decide to pursue 

the Loyalty End Game.
11-20 Ancient Factory The world seems to have been intended as a site for a massive factory, 

though for what purpose remains unclear. The installations have long 
since decayed and only the shattered ruins remain. Artifacts found can 
provide tantalizing hints, not to mention valuable instructions for the 

researchers, but the truth may lie somewhere else entirely.

For the rest of the campaign, you receive 1 additional Build Point 
every campaign turn.

This Breakthrough also provides a bonus if you pursue the 
Loyalty End Game.

169



Campaign Development

21-30 Artificial Construction Evidence increasingly points to the planet itself having been 
manufactured through unfathomable levels of technology. For what 

purpose is beyond your researchers to unravel, but it must have been 
grand to warrant such an expenditure of resources. 

Gain 3 Story Points and add 2 XP to three characters of your choice. 
This Breakthrough also provides a bonus if you decide to pursue the 

Independence End Game.
31-40 Defense Network The planet bears signs of having been constructed, though by who 

is not clear. Evidently it was intended as part of a grand defensive 
network stretching across the stars, possibly to serve as a defensive 

perimeter against some expected invader on a galactic scale. 

Sleepers no longer receive a Saving Throw against your attacks. 
This Breakthrough provides a bonus if you pursue the 

Independence End Game.
41-50 Moved in Time or Space This is not the original location of this world, and it may not even be 

the original timeline either. The data is puzzling to say the least but, at 
some point, the cosmic fabric was manipulated on a scale that would 
transcend any such experiment currently understood to be possible.

Immediately obtain 10 Research Points.
This Breakthrough also provides a bonus if you decide to pursue the 

Ascension End Game.

170



Campaign Development

51-60 Psionic Manipulation The world has been subjected to some of the largest psionic 
engineering ever witnessed. Its exact purpose is hazy at best and 

perhaps the very nature of the engineering prevents its secrets being 
unraveled. Clearly this will have a profound effect on 

future existence on this world. 

Select three characters on your roster and raise their 
Reaction scores by +1.

This Breakthrough provides a bonus if you pursue the 
Isolation End Game.

61-70 Semi-living Organism The entire planet appears to be a cohesive organism, the nature of 
which currently transcends our understanding. How such a creation 

could come to be is not easily explained, nor whether it did so 
naturally or through intelligent design. 

Reduce all current and future Hazard levels on the map by -1. 
This Breakthrough provides a bonus if you pursue the 

Isolation End Game.
71-80 Signs of Genetic It is becomes clear to you that the Lifeforms on this world are the result 

Modification of intentional genetic modification or have been created from scratch. 
The motive for doing so eludes you, but it raises important questions 

about the boundaries of life and your purpose in the universe. 

You immediately receive 5 Augmentation Points. 
This Breakthrough provides a bonus if you pursue the  

Ascension End Game.
81-90 Terraforming The world underwent massive terraforming efforts on a scale that is 

beyond our technological reach. There is little sign that long term 
colonization took place however, the ruins you find seemingly being 
abandoned quickly. Perhaps one day it will be clear why the colony 

was never completed, after such tremendous efforts. 

You may immediately add 10 Build Points.
This Breakthrough also provides a bonus if you decide to pursue the 

Loyalty End Game.
91-00 Warzone The world bears the scars of a massive conflict fought here with 

weapons beyond our understanding. It is possible the damage you 
have uncovered may even stem from only stray shots originating in 

space. Whatever the conflict, those who waged it are no longer around 
to claim their victory or lament their defeat.

You may immediately add 4 grunts to your Colony Tracking Sheet. 
Add 3 Research Points. 

This Breakthrough also provides a bonus if you decide to pursue the 
Independence End Game.

171



Campaign Development

Patterns
“The signs are unmistakable,” Shival declared A cacophony erupted as everyone began to talk 
to the assembled group. Without waiting for at once, pointing to elements of the map and 
confirmation, she continued: “Every predictive proclaiming their interpretations and theories. 
simulation shows the same thing: There is She crossed her arms and waited. This was 
something out there near the galactic core and part of the creative process. Any minute now 
the Slyn knows what it is.” someone would…
One of the younger researchers looked up “It’s a beacon.”
from their data pad. “I tried reaching out to 
our Precursor contacts, but they were not Sylas’s voice cut through the din and 
forthcoming. Typical obfuscation we always get brought the room to silence. He looked up 
from them.” from the prediction software he was usually 

submerged in. 
A few of the team members laughed bitterly. 
Despite all the achievements of Humanity, Shival nodded. The information sunk in as the 
