it encompasses, even if there is empty ground A table will almost always look better if you 
between each tree, for example. establish a theme with the terrain. This can 

be as in-depth as you like, particularly if you 
are building to a specific story. When you are 

140



starting out, this does not have to be any more The Key Feature
involved than a basic terrain type that you use 
more of than the rest. If the table has a lot of Often, your collection will have some 
jungle features with a few boulders, you have a particularly cool and impressive terrain piece. 
visual theme going already. You might have a huge alien building, a space 

port landing pad or a huge rock formation with 
Putting terrain into clusters of similar pieces a waterfall modelled down the side. 
can help reinforce or create a theme. If you 
are using a mixture of alien ruins and jungle Whatever it is, it takes up a big chunk of 
pieces, consider putting the ruins on one gaming space. Impressive features like this 
side of the table and the jungle on the other, should always be placed near the center of 
producing a natural-feeling environment. the table, where most of the action is likely 

to take place. This ensures that characters will 
This can be achieved even with only a couple have time and motivation to move around the 
of pieces, as the Human mind is inclined to feature, that objectives might be placed on it, 
recognize patterns on sight. Boulders placed and so forth.
as points of a triangle look immediately 
interesting, even if it has absolutely no other If a major feature is positioned along the 
function or purpose. battlefield edge, it will look impressive, but 

odds are it will not feature in the game much or 

141



Battlefield Setup

even at all. This can be okay if you are content Using Terrain Tiles
with it being a visual piece to add atmosphere, 
but this is often disappointing for features that Many board game and roleplaying game 
are made to be interacted with, such as the floor tiles are available, and these are great 
spaceport. for games set inside buildings, alien ruins, or 

crashed ship interiors.
Terrain features with limited interaction 
potential (such as a waterfall) are fine along Tiles are usually modular and can be arranged 
the side, since they are mostly being added to taste, producing a wide range of different 
to give visual appeal to the game. When used setups. You can even combine exterior and 
like this, they can be thought of as a backdrop interior areas by placing the tiles on a gaming 
to the game table rather than acting as terrain table, surrounded by normal terrain. The edge 
features in their own right. of the tiled area is assumed to be walls. 

Some players hesitate in placing a lot of terrain While tiles tend to be marked with a square 
along the edges, since it is at risk of being grid, it is usually preferable to continue using 
knocked off. If you are concerned, don’t be measurements on the tiles. This has the 
ashamed to leave an inch or two empty along advantage of not requiring conversion rules, as 
the edges! well as allowing more flexibility when placing 

figures. For example, on most grids it is difficult 
to place figures firing from corners of rooms, 

Checking your Work due to how the grid is usually aligned to the 
When you have filled your table with terrain, corridors. 
stand back and have a look at how things You will also find that most tiles have one-
turned out. Check for lines of fire: Long sight square-wide corridors, which are difficult to 
lines where a figure in one position could fire use in tactical combat. When measuring, two 
across most of the table, especially if they can figures can often fit in a corridor and both fight, 
be in cover while doing so. making the area more dynamic. 
A few such positions are not a huge problem When placing terrain tiles, try to emphasize 
– it helps characters with heavy weapons find having lots of rooms with shorter corridors 
something to do – but too many can result in connecting them. Rooms are more interesting, 
a static game where there is not much reason as they offer more tactical possibilities for 
to move. movement and fighting. Many tile sets have 
When fighting enemies with close-range machinery and obstacles drawn on the tiles, 
attacks, it can also result in them having a giving more opportunities to seek cover.
difficult time getting anywhere and, while Terrain Tiles and Movement
the shooting gallery is fun occasionally, it is 
hardly dramatic. When using terrain tiles for building interiors, 

the default is to continue using measurements 
Ensure you don’t make the table too cluttered. and ignore the grid on the tiles. If you prefer 
Sometimes, removing one or two pieces can to use the grid, on a large interior floor plan 
help encourage figures to move around the 1” = 1 square will work fine. If you need to 
table. Also, be especially careful not to fill condense things, use 2” = 1 square instead.
the table with terrain that is difficult to move 
within. This can cause the game to slow to a 
crawl and is often not very exciting.

142



Battlefield Setup

Random Table Setup 
(optional rules)

If you prefer to have an unpredictable gaming D100 GROUND
table, you can use the following system. Follow 01-15 Sand or gravel
each step in turn. You may have to make 
adjustments to fit the terrain pieces you have 16-30 Dirt or mud 
available to use. You could even modify the 31-80 Plant growth such as grass
table to produce your own custom terrain table 81-95 Rocky and hard ground
matching either your current terrain collection 
or the terrain you are building to play Planetfall. 96-00 Alien surface such as remnant 

construction
All dice rolls use D100.
It is generally accepted that due to limitations Step 2: Organizing the Table into Clusters
presented by your terrain collection, a few Form your gaming table into a number of 
rerolls here is fine and you certainly do not spaces, each of which will hold one terrain 
need to use Story Points for that purpose.  cluster. The size of a cluster can vary but should 
Of course, some players will gain enjoyment be enough that it can hold the largest terrain 
from trying to stick strictly to the results of the feature you intend to use. If in doubt, you can 
dice and, if so, no rerolls can be made. After make the clusters 12” square, fitting 9 of them 
all, the world is the way it was created before in a 3x3 foot table. 
you ever got here. Organizing clusters into a grid is easiest, but 
Step 1: Roll for Ground Type you can also have them staggered in each row. 
This determines the general surface you will be You don’t have to painstakingly measure this 
fighting over and is included for players who out – eyeballing the size of each cluster is fine. 
own (or want to buy or build) multiple gaming With experience you might even place the 
mats or suitably colored tablecloths. clusters fluidly as you go. 

If you prefer a more open table, you can place 
fewer or smaller clusters than the table could 
take. For example, on a 3x3 foot table you may 
use 9 clusters but make some of them only 8” 

Cluster Type table

D100 CLUSTER FEATURE

01-05 Alien ruin Remains of an ancient alien construction
06-10 Wreckage Shuttle crash site, overgrown alien ship wreckage
11-25 Foliage Tall bushes, forest
26-40 High ground Hills, dunes, or other raised ground
41-50 Liquid Streams, lakes, or swamp. Can be water or other liquids
51-65 Boulders Large rock formations
66-80 Rough ground Broken ground with many rocks or other hindrances
81-85 Facility Colony structure such as a habitation shelter or mining drill
86-95 Open ground Fairly open ground with a few scatter features
96-00 Dense terrain Dense mass of forest, rocks, or other obscuring terrain

143



Battlefield Setup

or 10” along each side. Alternatively, you might Method 3: Roll multiple features up front and 
choose to use only 7 clusters instead of 9. then arrange them in clusters. You can do 3 or 
Table space that is not within a cluster is empty. more or even roll every feature in advance and 

then place them.
If you prefer to randomize every aspect, tally up 
the number of clusters that would fit, then roll As terrain placement is highly individual, you 
1D6-3. If the result is negative, reduce the total may have your own preference for this. 
number of clusters by this amount. Step 4: Roll for Sub-features
Step 3: Primary Terrain for each Cluster If any clusters have open space within them 
For each cluster you have, make a roll to at this point, roll again to determine what 
determine that cluster’s primary terrain type. sub-feature may be present. Clusters that are 

completely filled skip this step.
This is open to interpretation (and your terrain 
collection). You can take it as the primary As with the last step you can roll for one cluster 
feature placed in the cluster, or you can try to at a time or roll them in advance and then 
fill the cluster if you like. place them.

For game play purposes it is usually better to Make Adjustments
break large areas such as forest into two smaller Once you are done determining your terrain, 
features with some space between them to take a few moments to review your table. You 
resemble a path or clearing. may find that two features would look better if 
You can use one of three methods here: they were swapped in position, for example to 

have areas heavy in plants near each other. 
Method 1: Roll for each cluster one at a time, 
placing terrain as you go. You may also have a piece that just doesn’t 

look right, and the table would be improved by 
Method 2: Roll a terrain feature, then choose replacing it with something else.
which cluster to put it in, placing as you go. Also review any wide-open spaces. A few of 

these are not a problem and can add visual 
Cluster Sub-feature table

D100 SUB-FEATURE DESCRIPTION

01-14 None No additional feature is present.
15-20 Crystals Man-sized crystals.
21-27 Probe The wreck of a probe, drone or similar.
28-37 Bushes Some shrubs or bushes.
38-49 Rocks A few big rocks.
50-60 Trees A few single trees.
61-67 Puddle A small liquid feature.
68-73 Crater A crater from a meteor strike.
74-80 Hedge Plants forming a natural barrier.
81-89 Sign Sign placed by colony scout.
90-94 Peculiar item Something strange and inexplicable. Be creative!
95-00 Remnants Animal carcass or bones. 

144



Battlefield Setup

Map Adjustments
appeal, but if they are too large, they can be If your location on the world map is characterized 
difficult in the game as figures trying to cross by a particular terrain type such as rocks, forest, 
them get shot too easily. This is realistic, but or swamp, one cluster at the center of the table 
can make the game too dominated by heavy will always feature the terrain type on the map. 
firepower, so be careful about big spaces that You can either skip the roll here (if the map says 
will take more than two rounds to cross. you are in the mountains, put a bunch of rocks 
If there are still some large empty spots, add here) or roll and then try to amend the feature 
a few extra scatter features: rocks, crystals, or (a roll of high ground could become a rock 
trees. This will help break up the long lines of formation on top of some high ground). 
fire a bit more. Once everything looks good, 
you are ready to play! ◆	 Narrowing what some of the entries mean. 

Instead of “Liquid” meaning any pool of 
Customizing the Terrain Tables liquid, you might replace it with “Swamps” 

because you think it would be cool to play 
You can create your own custom terrain tables on a fetid, marshy planet.
by copying the existing tables and then 
swapping out some entries for other types of ◆	 Replacing some entries with unique features 
terrain. This can be used, for example, to adapt from your collection. Maybe you have some 
to your particular terrain collection or to create huge plastic crystal pieces and would like to 
something unique. use those, so you swap out the “Liquid” entry 

for “Huge crystal”. 
Examples might include: If you wish the game world to evolve as you 
◆	 Duplicating certain entries to account for play, replace the first entry you roll each 

your collection (or your vision of a science time with something new for the next game, 
fiction world) featuring a lot of a particular allowing the terrain table to morph as you play 
terrain type such as multiple High Ground the game, offering a balance of continuity and 
entries for a more hilly, broken-up world. evolution as your crew explores the world.

145



Battlefield Setup

Enemy Generation

Generating Lifeforms Step 1: Mobility
