
attempt to roll 1D6+Savvy. A 5+ means you Patrol Mission
can choose which Lifeform you are facing. 
Otherwise, roll randomly on the Campaign Survival on a hostile world requires vigilance. 
Lifeform Encounters table. If the result is a You send out a team to conduct a patrol near the 
blank entry, generate the creature now and add colony to keep everyone safe and have a look at 
it to your encounter table. conditions in the field. 

Objectives Map Location
If the Slyn are attacking, you are trying to fight Select any map sector within 2 squares of your 
them off. This prevents you from obtaining any colony. The sector must not be enemy-occupied.
mission Rewards. Note: You are patrolling a part of the sector that 
If you are facing Lifeforms, the goal is to kill two your colonists have begun utilizing. The Hazard 
Lifeforms, then move a figure into base contact and Resource scores are not used in a routine 
with each, spend an action to transmit the data patrol and completing the patrol does not 
to the colony and then escape the table. make the sector Exploited.

Ending the Mission Table Setup
The mission ends when your squad is no longer Use a  3x3-foot table populated with terrain.
on the table, either due to being casualties Place a few features to represent the colony, 
or moving off any battlefield edge. You do such as a parked vehicle, building outpost, 
not have to exit via a specific edge. Typically, fencing, or similar. (A few work robots always 
once you have completed your tasks, you will help give a fun science fiction vibe.) 
move to evacuate off the battlefield. Any crew 
member that leaves the table is assumed to Roll once for Battlefield Conditions. 
return safely to your vehicle. Uncertain Features should not be used.
If you are fighting the Slyn, the mission also Mark the 3 terrain features closest to the 
ends if you drive them off. If the Slyn abandon center as Objectives. 
the battle, you can claim any remaining 
objectives that were not claimed already. Player Forces

You will deploy 2 characters from your roster 
Rewards as well as a single fireteam of up to 4 grunts.
◆	 If you obtain a sample from two Lifeforms, 

it authorizes you to carry out Bio-Analysis Randomly select a battlefield edge (if your 
Research (see page 92). table is placed against a wall, just pick from 

the edges you can sit at). Your crew sets up 
◆	 If you fight the Slyn and drive them off,  anywhere you like within 4” of the selected 

you may roll for a Post-Mission Find (see battlefield edge.
page 134). After all, they would not be here 
if there was not something of interest. Opposition

After deploying, roll 2D6:
Campaign Factors
If the sector has a Hazard factor roll 1D6.  If the roll is 2-4, you are attacked by the Slyn. 
On 5-6, it is reduced by 1. The Slyn will set up in randomly selected terrain 

features near the opposite battlefield edge. 
Special Rules Locate the 6 terrain features closest to that 
No additional special rules apply. battlefield edge and roll randomly for each Slyn 

pair to see which they deploy into.

121



Missions

If the roll is 5-12, you are contending with If you are fighting the Slyn, the mission  
Lifeforms. No Contacts are placed, initially. also ends if you drive them off. If the Slyn  

abandon the battle, you can clear any 
Objectives remaining objectives. 
To conduct your patrol, each Objective must 
be cleared. An Objective is clear if you have a Rewards
figure within 2” and no enemies are within ◆	 If you complete at least 1 Objective, 
the same distance. You can clear multiple increase Colony Morale by 1. 
Objectives in the same round. 

◆	 If you complete all 3 Objectives, roll for a 
If present the Slyn are here to kill you and will Post-Mission Find (see page 134). 
ignore the Objectives. 

Campaign Factors
Any Lifeforms will always ignore the Objectives. None apply.
Ending the Mission Special Rules
The mission ends when your squad is no longer 
on the table, either due to being casualties If fighting Lifeforms, at the end of each battle 
or moving off any battlefield edge. You do round, one Contact is placed at the center of 
not have to exit via a specific edge. Typically, a random battlefield edge except the one you 
once you have completed your tasks, you will entered from.
move to evacuate off the battlefield. Any crew Contacts can move off the battlefield edge 
member that leaves the table is assumed to during this mission. Any that do are removed 
return safely to your vehicle. from the table.

122



Missions

Skirmish Objective table

D6 SKIRMISH 
OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE COMPLETION CONDITIONS

1 Secure End a battle round with only your characters within 3” of the Objective.
2 Sweep Moving into contact. 

Select one character to carry demo charges. They automatically destroy the 
3 Destroy Objective by moving into contact. Otherwise, a character in base contact can roll 

1D6 and add the damage value of any Melee weapon carried. 
On 6+, they destroy the Objective.

4 Search Take an action within 2” and roll 1D6+Savvy. 
A result of 6+ completes the Objective. 

Select two characters that each carry one of the items to be delivered (beacon, 
5 Deliver scanning pod, etc.) Either character must move into base contact with the 

Objective to complete it. If you receive two Deliver Objectives, four characters 
carry the items, and they can be used for to make contact with either Objective.

6 Retrieve Move into base contact with the Objective to retrieve the item. 
It must then be carried off the table. 

Skirmish Items are sensitive and cannot be voluntarily 
Enemy activity has been intensifying, and it is dropped or handed off. The enemy always 
time to fight back. You deploy from your shuttle ignores any items on the ground.
to take on the enemy directly. Player Forces
Map Location You may deploy 4 characters from your roster 
Any map sector that is occupied by the enemy. as well as a full fireteam of 4 grunts.

Randomly select a battlefield edge (if your 
Table Setup table is placed against a wall, just pick from 
Use a  3x3-foot table populated with terrain. the edges you can sit at). Your crew sets up 
Roll 1D6 twice on the Skirmish Objective anywhere you like within 4” of the selected 
table below to determine what you are here to battlefield edge.
do. Each objective is placed randomly 1D6+1” 
from the center of the table. Opposition
If you wish to use the optional Uncertain The Slyn will not interfere in this mission.
Features rule, place 2 Uncertain Features on Your opposition is generated normally using 
the table. the appropriate Tactical Enemy type (see 
Roll once for Battlefield Conditions. page 148). 

Several Objectives depend on carrying items. Select the 6 terrain features closest to the 
A character can carry any number of mission opposite battlefield edge from where you set 
items. If the character is a casualty, the up. For each enemy, roll a D6 to determine 
item is dropped where they fell and can be which terrain feature they begin the game 
picked up by moving into base contact with within (directly behind if unable to be placed 
it. Retrieving or deploying an item does not within the feature).
require an action.

123



Missions

Objectives Rescue Mission
The enemies ignore the Objectives and will 
focus on killing your squad. Colonists have sent up an SOS signal, and your 

squad is headed out to rescue them before they 
Ending the Mission get overwhelmed. 
The mission ends when your squad is no longer Map Location
on the table, either due to being casualties or 
moving off any battlefield edge. You do not Select any map sector within 3 squares of  
have to exit a specific edge, unless a Battlefield your colony. 
Condition mandates it. Typically, once you Table Setup
have completed your tasks, you will move to 
evacuate off the battlefield. Any crew member Use a  2x2-foot table populated with terrain.
that leaves the table is assumed to return safely Place three colonists in the center of the table 
to your vehicle. (you can use figures or markers to represent 

them). If possible, place them near a wrecked 
Rewards vehicle, crater, a piece of machinery, or a small 
You may roll once on the Post-Mission Finds colony building. 
table if you complete the mission. The Uncertain Features option is not used.
Campaign Factors Roll once for Battlefield Conditions. 
If you complete both Objectives, the enemy 
will no longer occupy this map sector. If this Player Forces
was their last sector, they move to a random You may deploy a total of 6 figures which can 
adjacent sector. Note that you cannot destroy be any combination of characters from your 
the final map sector occupied by a particular roster and grunts. Grunts are organized into 
enemy without playing the Assault mission. fireteams normally with any grunts past 4 

forming their own team.
Special Rules
The longer the mission takes, the more Your squad deploys from the shuttle directly 
enemies are likely to arrive. At the end of each into the action. Set up your squad within 3” of 
battle round, roll 1D6. If you have completed the center of the table. 
any Objectives, roll an additional D6 for each Opposition
completed Objective. The Slyn will not interfere in this mission.
◆	 For every 6 rolled, a regular enemy arrives 

and is placed at the center of a random You are fighting Lifeforms. Place 2 Contacts at 
battlefield edge. All enemies arriving at the center of each battlefield edge. 
the same time will arrive from the same The first time a Contact is revealed to be 
battlefield edge. Since you are in enemy hostile Lifeforms, roll on the Campaign 
territory, they may deploy behind you. Lifeform Encounters table to determine what 

◆	 If you roll two 6s at once, one of the you encounter. If the result is a blank entry, 
enemies placed will be a specialist and the generate the creature now and add it to your 
other a regular enemy. encounter table.

◆	 If you roll three 6s, the enemy receives 
one regular, one specialist, and one 
Leader enemy. 

124



Missions

Objectives Scout Down! 
The Objective is to save the colonists. A colonist 
is saved if they exit any battlefield edge and One of your scouts have been shot down with 
were within 3” of a squad member either at the enemies closing in. You deploy to rescue them. 
start of that move or at the point of exit. Map Location
As your shuttle pilot will circle to pick up, you Select any unexplored map sector.
can exit across any edge.

Table Setup
A colonist that exits without being near a squad 
member must roll 1D6. On 5-6, they make it Use a  2x2-foot table populated with terrain.
to the nearby shuttle and are saved, otherwise Place a scout in the center of the table. If 
they are killed by animals. possible, place them near a wrecked vehicle or 

crater to represent where they were shot down.
Ending the Mission
The mission ends when your squad and the The Uncertain Features option is not used.
colonists are no longer on the table, either Roll once for Battlefield Conditions. 
due to being casualties or moving off any 
battlefield edge. Player Forces

You may deploy a total of 6 characters which 
Rewards can be any combination of characters from 
No special rewards. your roster and grunts. Grunts are organized 

into fireteams normally, with any grunts past 4 
Campaign Factors forming their own team.
You will lose 1 Colony Morale for each colonist 
that is not saved. (note that if you opt not to Select any battlefield edge you like. Your squad 
carry out the mission when generated by the moves on to the table from the edge in the first 
Scout Discovery table, you lose 3 points, as all battle round. 
of the colonists are assumed to perish). Opposition
Squad casualties do not affect Colony Morale Roll 2D6. On 2-3, the Slyn are attacking. 
during a Rescue mission. The Slyn will set up in randomly selected terrain 
Special Rules features near the opposite battlefield edge. 
At the end of each battle round, roll 1D6 Locate the 6 terrain features closest to that 
for each battlefield edge. On 6, a Contact is battlefield edge and roll randomly for each Slyn 
placed in the center of that edge. Contacts pair to see which they deploy into.
cannot exit the table in this mission and will If the Slyn do not attack, you are fighting 
halt in place instead. Tactical Enemies: Roll for the enemy strength 
The colonists have civvy stats (see page 18) and normally. The enemy will be whoever is closest 
act as part of your squad. They do not carry any on the map or can be picked at random.
weapons though they could pick up a weapon In the event you do not have any Tactical 
from one of your casualties if you choose to Enemies on the game map, randomly pick an 
allow this. encounter from the Tactical Enemies list (see 

page 149). This does not add that enemy to 
your map – you are fighting a small raiding 
party or patrol group.

125



Missions

The enemy moves onto the table from the Pitched Battle
opposite battlefield edge to yours during the 
Round 1. Divide the enemy force into three The enemy is launching an attack on you and 
roughly equal-size groups; each arrives spaced will have to fight to see them off. Significant 
roughly equally along their battlefield edge. damage to the colony can ensue.

Objectives Map Location
Save the crashed scout by rescuing them off Your colony sector.
any battlefield edge. Table Setup
Ending the Mission Table size: A 3x3-foot table populated with 
The mission ends when your squad and the terrain.
scout have left the table, either as casualties or The table should have several colony-style 
by moving them off any battlefield edge. features such as buildings, parked vehicles, 

cultivated fields and similar.
Rewards
No special rewards. The Uncertain Features option is not used.

As the battle takes place within the colony 
Campaign Factors perimeter, Battlefield Conditions are not used. 
If the scout is not on your roster, you receive  
1 point of Colony Morale for saving them. Player Forces
If the map sector is not already Explored, it You may deploy up to 4 characters from your 
becomes so. Generate the Resource and roster and up to 8 grunts, formed into two 
Hazard levels normally (see page 60). fireteams.

Squad casualties do not affect Colony Morale Select any battlefield edge you like. Set up 
during a Scout Down! mission. anywhere within 8” of that battlefield edge. 

You may place small barricades or fox holes for 
Special Rules your characters to set up within. 
◆	 The enemy rolls 1D6 at the end of each Opposition

battle round. On 6, they receive one 
standard enemy soldier at the center of You are fighting Tactical Enemies. The Slyn  
their battlefield edge. will not interfere in this mission.

◆	 If using a scout from your roster, they have The enemy will consist of two enemy forces 
their normal profile and carry your choice of each with their own leaders and specialists. 
Scout weapons. For an unknown scout, use Each force is generated normally using the 
the base profile and add a scout pistol. Tactical Enemies rules (see page 148).

◆	 The injured scout; they can either move OR When rolling for the first force, reduce the 
take an action each round but not both. number encountered by 1. 

◆	 The scout begins the scenario undetected. When rolling for the second force, increase it 
They become detected if they fire a weapon, by 1.
are spotted out of cover or move more than The enemy moves onto the table from the 
2” in one action. opposite battlefield edge from where you set 

◆	 Until they are detected, the enemy will up. Divide the battlefield edge with 3 markers 
ignore them. fairly equally distanced from each other.

126



Missions

Campaign Consequences table

ROLL DAMAGE 
OUTCOMES CONSEQUENCE

01-20 Colony damage Your colony suffers extensive damage as it is wrecked by the attackers. 
Reduce Integrity by 1D6+2 points. If you have Colony Defenses, 

roll 1D6 for each point, with a 4+ negating it.
21-40 Interruption The attack disrupts your projects. All building and research projects that 

are only partially completed lose all progress.
41-60 Morale loss The colonists are dismayed at the carnage. 

Reduce Morale by 1D6+2 points.  
If you have Colony Defenses, roll 1D6 for each point, with a 4+ negating it.

61-80 Attrition You suffer losses as your military squads counter-attack.  
Remove 2 grunts from your Colony Tracking Sheet.

81-00 Prolonged battle In the fighting, as your colonists repel the intrusion, 2 random characters 
on your roster must roll on the Post-Battle Injury table. 

Characters injured during the mission cannot be selected.

At the start of the first Enemy Phase, one enemy Strike Mission
force arrives at a random marker. That marker is 
then removed. You have detected the location of an enemy 

leader and are launching a raid to capture them.
At the start of the second Enemy Phase, the 
second enemy force arrives at a random Map Location
remaining marker. The markers are then Adjacent to any enemy-occupied sector.
removed.

Table Setup
Objectives Use a  3x3-foot table populated with terrain.
This is a fight to the end. You must kill or drive 
off every enemy. You may wish to place a number of buildings, 

camp features, and similar around the table 
Ending the Mission near the center, representing an enemy 
The mission ends when your squad is no longer encampment or work site.
on the table, either due to being casualties or If using the Uncertain Terrain Features optional 
every enemy has been killed or panicked. rule (see page 137), place 2 Uncertain 

Features on the table.
Rewards
If you win, in addition to avoiding the negative Battlefield Conditions are used normally.
effects of an attack, each survivor receives  Player Forces
1 additional XP. You may use up to 6 characters from your 
Campaign Factors roster and up to 4 grunts formed into a single 
If you fail, roll D100 and consult the Campaign fireteam.
Consequences table above. You set up AFTER the enemy has been placed. 

Choose any battlefield edge you like and set up 
Special Rules within 3”. 
No special rules. This is a fight to the bitter end. 

127



Missions

Opposition Rewards
You are fighting Tactical Enemies. The Slyn  ◆	 If you secure the data from a Boss, you 
will not interfere in this mission. now know the location of the enemy 
Roll normally for the enemy numbers, then Strongpoint. 
add 2 additional enemies to the number ◆	 If you secure the data from a Leader, 
generated. you receive one additional Enemy 
If you have tracked an enemy Boss using Information. 
Enemy Information, the enemy will be Campaign Factors
accompanied by a Boss who is in addition to 
the regular opposition. The Boss is a leader with No special effects.
2 KP, +1 Combat Skill and +1 Toughness. Special Rules
If the Strike mission is in response to an enemy Any squad member that only moves but does 
patrol, you will face the normal number of not take an action is Undetected, until they 
enemies. There will always be one Leader. either take an action or an enemy has Line of 
The Boss, if present, sets up in the center of Sight to them outside of cover at any point.
the table. If a Boss is not present, the Leader The enemy AI works differently in this mission. 
is set up in the center instead. Set up a third Enemies will fight defensively remaining in 
of the remaining enemies within 3” of the cover and firing on you. Enemies that are out of 
centers, then set up the rest in pairs with range will move towards positions where they 
each pair placed 2D6” from the center in a can get lines of fire and then halt there while 
random direction. they are in range and sight.

Objectives The enemy will ignore Undetected squad 
You must either defeat the Boss (if present) members for all purposes. 
or Leader (otherwise) in a brawl or kill them 
and move a character to the location where Assault Mission
they fell. This allows you to secure the required 
data. You may then end the mission by It is time. You have tracked down the enemy 
retreating or fighting it out. You do not have to Strongpoint and are ready to take it by storm. 
move the character that collected the data to a Check the ammunition one last time – it will be 
battlefield edge. a hot landing.

If the enemy Boss/Leader becomes a casualty, Map Location
during each Enemy Phase, the nearest enemy A sector containing the enemy Strongpoint.
will try to move to where they fell. An enemy 
reaching the casualty location picks up the data Table Setup
and will then move as fast as possible towards Use a  3x3-foot table populated with terrain.
the nearest battlefield edge to escape. The table will look best if it features a lot 
Ending the Mission of structures and signs of habitation such 
The mission ends when your squad is no as crates, barrels, camp site elements, and 
longer on the table, or every enemy has  machinery. Alternatively, military-style terrain 
been defeated. such as trenches, barricades, and sandbag walls 

also work well, and both can be combined for a 
war-like table feel. 

128



Missions

If you have floor tiles available, you could Campaign Factors
make part of the scenario take place indoors or If you win, you eliminate this enemy from 
underground as well. the campaign. All sectors they occupy are 
Mark off roughly 12”x12” as the core of the relinquished. You may also immediately roll for 
enemy base. This should be the most densely the Resource and Hazard values of this map 
populated with urban style terrain. sector, as if it had just been Explored.

Uncertain Features and Battlefield Conditions If you are defeated or retreat off the table, the 
are not used in this scenario. mission is a failure. The enemy will be restored 

to full strength the next time you attack them. 
Player Forces In addition, a random map sector adjacent to 
You may deploy up to 6 characters from your the enemy Strongpoint becomes immediately 
roster and up to 8 grunts formed into two occupied by the enemy you attacked. 
fireteams. 

Special Rules
You set up AFTER the enemy has been placed. 
Choose any battlefield edge you like and set up ◆	 At the start of the first Enemy Phase, the 
within 3”. enemy is checked for their state of readiness.

◆	 Any enemy that had a Line of Sight to a crew 
Opposition figure that fired a weapon or could see a 
You are fighting Tactical Enemies. The Slyn will crew member with no intervening cover at 
not interfere in this mission. any point is ready and may activate normally.
There is no roll for the enemy numbers. ◆	 Any enemy that did not meet one of those 
Start with the maximum enemy encounter conditions is not ready and cannot activate 
size (for example if this is normally 1D3+5, it in the first game turn. They are either still 
would be 8). Then add 2 additional regular scanning for targets, unaware of the attack or 
enemies, 2 additional specialists, and 1 confused about what is going on. 
additional leader. The additional leader ◆	 From battle round two onwards every enemy 
receives +1 KP. becomes ready and will fight normally. 
The enemy is deployed fairly evenly throughout All enemy Panic ranges are reduced by 1 as 
the central 12”x12” area, in positions of cover. they are defending their home turf. 
They should cover each approach evenly as if The enemy AI is defensive in this mission:
positioned as sentries. 

◆	 Enemies will remain in cover and fire on 
Objectives you when possible. Enemies that are out of 
The mission is a straight fight to the death. Kill range will move towards positions where 
or drive off everybody you encounter. they can get lines of fire and then halt there 

while they are in range and sight.
Ending the Mission ◆	 The enemy will try to defend their initial 
The mission ends when your squad is no longer positions. They will move to brawl if they 
on the table or every enemy has been defeated. have a higher combat bonus and you are 

within one move. 
Rewards
You may roll twice on the Post-Battle Finds ◆	 Should the enemy be taking fire from 
table if you complete the mission. unreachable opponent, they will try to move 

to positions where they cannot be seen. 

129



