to ignoring each other, often at the same time. extortionate tolls, and raiders strike at colonies 
With the scale of galactic civilizations, societies for precious resources. 
are simply too vast to have a consistent 
relationship. The K’Erin and Unity may well be Each of the major powers spends some effort 
engaged in a brutal war of conquest in one in suppressing such lawless groups, though 
system, while diplomats praise a newly signed the amount of effort expended is often more 
military alliance to help suppress a Converted expensive than the occasional damage 
incursion in another system. caused as massive fleets prowl presumed-

empty systems for signs of starships or 
Keeping a running account of the myriad clandestine hideouts. 
diplomatic and political conditions is far 
beyond the capabilities of any one diplomat Of course, one government’s bandit is 
and each government employs massive another’s privateer, and it is not unusual for 
systems to both catalogue and formulate such lawless groups to be in the employ of 
policies and to anticipate future events. one benefactor or another, whether to cause 

instability or simply to have them on hand 
While few species are deathly rivals, with as a useful resource if a war breaks out. Such 
pragmatism and trade tending to win out long- agreements are illegal under intergalactic 
term, there are exceptions. The Converted, a law, but getting justice in court can take years. 
species of cybernetic organisms, harvesting Most fleet captains prefer vaporizing the 
captives and corpses alike to turn into new attacking ship and letting the diplomats deal 
shock troops, are a menace that threatens all of with the niceties.
galactic civilization if it should be permitted to 
spread unchecked. Far less benign are the threats to life itself such 

as infestations of hostile alien Lifeforms like 
Otherwise, species such as the Swarm appear the dreaded Vent Crawler or invasion forces of 
to lack large-scale organization but react to species inimical to life such as the Horde or the 
the presence of other lifeforms with such Converted. Unity fleets have standing orders 
unrelenting aggression that nearly all species to relay the sighting to the authorities by any 
employ a “destroy on sight” policy when means available and then engage to destroy 
encountering them. the intruder if possible. It is not unknown for 
The Slyn are a relatively minor species, their ships boarded by Converted assault troops to 
domains only encompassing a handful of detonate their power sources to prevent the 
worlds far from other civilizations. What has crew being taken alive. 
drawn them into the Kensington Reach is 
unknown, as is the reason for their high levels Unity Armed Forces
of aggression towards other species. The “grunts” – as they are affectionately 

known in recruiting commercials – are the foot 
troops representative of the massive Unity 
military forces. Spanning land troops, fleet 
units, and far more esoteric roles, the Unity 

182



Appendices

trooper strikes a dashing sight in their grey Once this has been done, landing forces carry 
uniforms with black and red armor. The grunt out a combination of strikes against enemy 
is somewhat well paid, fairly well equipped positions and landing more conventional 
and reasonably well trained, and often proves forces to try to link up with any surviving 
more than a match for the horrors the galaxy defenders. The fleet can bring a shocking 
can throw at their platoon. amount of firepower to bear, though priority 
Exploration missions tend to include small is usually to secure the colony intact and save 
detachments of troopers, many of them any survivors. 
veterans from prior conflicts, to act as a cadre 
for the training of a colonial militia. Many have Unity Field Agents
previously been stationed in the bug hunting 
squads, while others are promising individuals Unity is a massive behemoth that is incapable 
straight out of the academy. of quick decision-making. To keep the wheels 

of civilization turning, Humanity relies on 
Being a good soldier is not always an indication a vast number of special agents endowed 
that an individual will fit the colonial role. with far-reaching decision-making authority. 
Those detached here must be dependable, While they have a bewildering array of ranks 
resourceful, and able to operate independently. and responsibilities, these operatives are 
Due to the smaller scales of missions, the collectively known as Field Agents and they 
highest-ranking officer is often no more than a can be found throughout Human space, 
lieutenant. tracking down criminals, watching for signs of 
In the event a colony comes under sustained insurrection, infiltration, or natural hazards. 
attack, the nearest fleet will move to interdict Many specialize in particular concerns such as 
the system, preventing the enemy from moving corruption or invasion, while others are tasked 
in and out of the system, and isolating any with gathering information for the Bureaucracy 
troops already landed. to consider for future decision making.

183



Appendices

The Promise has seen scores of agents What the Fleet does not provide, the private 
dispatched on an array of missions with both sector does in abundance. No matter where you 
scientific and security concerns in mind. Most want to go, someone is going there whether 
explorer teams will have at least one covert to trade legally or illegally, deliver something, 
agent among the specialists and official pick up something, and occasionally just 
visits are common. The arrival of an agent because they want to visit. While most of 
can be tense, especially as many colonial the grand trade is controlled by mega- and 
administrators are not above a little creative ultra-corporations, space does remain the last 
bookkeeping as a reward for a relatively boring region of society to remain somewhat wild and 
job. The general population tends to feel better anarchic. An enterprising crew with a ship can 
with an agent around, if for no other reason go almost anywhere, particularly if they are 
than the fact every agent has the authority to willing to dodge a few Fleet interdiction points, 
request fleet and army detachments if they and this sort of freewheeling lifestyle can be 
deem a colony is sufficiently at risk. appealing. Many of these freelancers find their 
The effect of their presence is to keep an ever- ways into Unity service at some point, whether 
watchful eye out for destabilizing influences, in the Fleet, as agents, or being assigned to 
alien infiltration, and threats to Unity standing colonization projects as specialists and advisors.
and influence in the colony. Even if a rebel 
faction manages to take over control of a Galactic Warfare
colony, an Agent is usually able to get a distress 
signal out and request a Unity relief operation. Galactic societies are large but many of the 

population centers are not. Colonies often 
have only a few thousand inhabitants and the 

Unity Fleet Forces cost of moving armed forces through space is 
A galactic civilization can only remain a galactic significant. 
civilization on the strength of its naval forces. Many armed conflicts take place on an 
The starfaring vessels of Unity comprise the essentially local scale. It is not at all unusual 
Fleet, tirelessly prowling the space near planets for a “planetary war” to have involved a few 
to patrol for hazards or providing assistance battalions of infantry slugging it out near the 
when needed. one colony of the planet.
Fleet captains are among the most admired In part, this is also due to concern about 
people within Unity: They are often seen as escalation. If a conflict drags on, it may draw 
the only individuals who can stand between in increasing amounts of resources, which in 
the destruction of an entire world and its turn causes the conflict to escalate further. 
salvation, and most captains do little to dispel Massive fleets and armies cannot be easily 
that reputation. stood down once they are committed, and a 
Any galactic civilization could deploy a military war that expands too quickly risks expanding 
fleet capable of destroying entire solar systems, uncontrollably. 
if it was concentrated, but the demands of In the interests of preserving civilization, most 
patrols, military actions and escort duties keep military vessels also include diplomats to help 
most ships busy and, as space is vast, only reach a satisfactory solution or at least one that 
areas near settled planets can meaningfully be is not catastrophic.
patrolled or interdicted.

184



Appendices

Game Mastering
While Game Mastering is usually associated Adjudicating Player Actions
with roleplaying games, it is an old tradition 
in miniatures gaming and can be used to Playing with a GM also opens up the 
enhance your Planetfall campaign considerably. possibility of player actions. A player can 

request to take actions that are not normally 
A Game Master (GM) acts as an additional covered by the rules, such as trying to start a 
input into the campaign, with a typical Game fire, building a sniper’s nest, or hacking into a 
Mastered campaign having one player act as computer terminal. 
the GM while one or more players control the 
player forces. You can also GM for yourself. The GM determines if the action is reasonable 
GM’ing narrative miniatures games relies and assigns a chance of success usually based 
heavily on creativity and improvisation, but on a die roll. If you are uncertain, a simple 4+ 
this section offers a few points to get you up or 5+ die roll is usually fine. You will need to 
and running. determine what happens on a failure. “It does 

not work” is fine and keeps the game moving 
on, while more creative GMs may allow things 

Controlling the Enemy to get more problematic. After all, trying to 
The simplest place to start is to GM a single build your own demolition charges can be 
battle by taking control of the enemies. Enemy rather dangerous.
forces run by the GM are not bound by their AI However, resist the temptation to be overly 
and may instead move and attack freely. punitive: If the risks are always much worse 
Unless you are playing a custom scenario, the than the rewards, players will stop using  
enemies should still be reasonably bound the option. 
by the limits normal rules apply to them. An Player actions are intended to do cool and 
animal cannot suddenly pick up a laser rifle, interesting things, not be a dull way to get a 
and a pirate grunt still moves and shoots once few +1 hit modifiers. They may be suitable 
per action, as normal. for some scenarios, but not others. If you are 
This is particularly suitable to intelligent playing on your own, you can still use this but 
enemies, allowing them to use a greater based on your own sense of what works for the 
degree of tactics. game. Some players prefer to stick closely to 

the normal combat rules while others enjoy 
When controlling enemy forces, the GM the idea that, for example, a character could 
should note that their role is to provide a more use their weapon to knock down a tree, thus 
exciting encounter, not to win a competitive blocking a road. 
game. Injecting an element of roleplaying can 
greatly enhance the fun of the game by having Players who desire a more extensive approach 
enemies act appropriately based on what to this can consult Five Parsecs: Tactics for a 
they can see or their personality. For example, discussion of the subject with more rules, 
the GM might decide that the enemy in this options, and material. 
particular battle is a reconnaissance patrol 
which will try to avoid engaging in combat 
unless attacked by the players’ forces. These 
types of personality-driven tactics can be a lot of 
fun if the player or players try to figure out what 
is happening. 

185



Appendices

Custom Scenarios Start small. It is almost always better to begin 
A GM can also create special scenarios to with something manageable that you can 
play through. These may change the normal finish than to try something huge that will fizzle 
encounter rules and might involve everything out. If you are playing with a group, you should 
from sneaking into an enemy base to trying to make sure everyone is on the same page. If 
tame a wild animal. your players are expecting a huge custom 

storyline and you are expecting to just do a few 
They may change how figures are deployed, custom enemies here and there, there will be 
what the objectives are, and anything else they dissatisfaction. Take a few minutes before the 
can think of doing. campaign begins to discuss what you are really 
A custom scenario can be part of an overarching interested in, what sounds fun, and what levels 
storyline, or it can be a stand-alone custom of reward and challenge should be included.
encounter. When playing with a GM, it is A scenario can be based around almost any idea 
common to mix the two together alongside you can think of. A good starting point is some 
regular missions from the rulebook, giving you sort of mystery: Someone has been sabotaging 
a lot of variety in what is happening. Often, the the power storage cells, a strange signal is 
GM can use things that occur randomly as a detected from a drill site, a researcher has gone 
springboard for a side story or the beginning missing. Science fiction novels and television 
of an epic quest. This can be small: A K’Erin can furnish numerous examples suitable for 
landing party is testing a strange atmospheric stealing and putting into your games. 
manipulation device and you must track down 
the three keys to break through their force When creating longer story lines, evaluate how 
shield and deactivate it. It can also be a huge, it will interface with the conventional campaign 
sweeping tale with countless encounters, mechanics. Stories that mostly take place in the 
recurring villains, and revelations. tactical environment of tabletop battles are the 

easiest with which to work. If a story requires 

186



Appendices

characters to be away from the colony for an specific things in the scenario such as 
extended period, for example, consider how terrain features or characters rather than 
that might affect other elements of the game. modifications to the core combat rules. 
If the entire squad is stuck in the wilderness 
because their shuttle crashed, what happens if ◆	 Avoid adding random dice rolls for 
an enemy attacks the colony? You can handle everything. You are already rolling a lot 
these questions on the fly (and some events of dice playing the scenario. If there are 
can be treated as “nothing happens”, if needed) too many random factors, the player can 
but it is helpful to think of these things in easily feel like they have no control over the 
advance to avoid unpleasant surprises. experience, and it is at the whim of the dice.

◆	 Multi-stage actions or objectives that require 
Things to be Wary of a series of successful dice rolls become 

statistically likely to fail. For example, an 
Creating fun, engaging scenarios is a skill that action that requires three consecutive rolls of 
improves with practice, but below are some 4+ has only a 12.5% chance of success.
guidelines to help avoid common problems:

◆	 New items, skills, or weapons are very strong 
◆	 If the scenario involves a time limit, check motivations, but unless they are limited to 

that the objectives can be achieved in the a set number of uses, remember that they 
time frame available, especially if they will probably stay in the campaign for a long 
involve significant movement. time. A hyper-laser with 5 attack dice, +1 to 

hit, and which ignores armor is fun but will 
◆	 Lean on the cautious side when adding 

special rules to a scenario. It is easy to go make alien critters seem less dangerous. 
overboard and end up with a scenario that ◆	 Think carefully about scenarios that can 
is confusing or difficult to play. To avoid inflict permanent damage to the characters, 
complexity, try to focus special rules on beyond the normal injury rules.

187



Appendices

Designer Notes
You have arrived at the end. Did you read The new aliens, the Slyn, are an occasional 
everything in this book? threat that will show up to pick a fight and 
It’s okay if you didn’t – you’ll get there when often disappear just as mysteriously. They are 
needed. Obviously a “Parsecs” game needs intended to be enigmatic and difficult to pin 
certain features and, in particular, it must down, both in motivation and literally within 
be mechanically compatible, but the game the game. They are the only foe you cannot 
should be a unique experience as well. While choose to take on intentionally.
the familiar beat of “carry out actions, fight On a tactical level, the rules remain fairly 
missions, track things” remains the same, the simple. It is my belief that a solo game, and 
details are all different and, in some cases, especially one with a lot happening, needs to 
quite so. For one, you have less direct control of be a little bit simpler than what a player versus 
your characters this time. You are administering player system might demand. You may find 
a colony, and your squad members all have that a typical firefight is over rapidly and will 
jobs to do outside the battlefield. quickly punish the careless (or unlucky). 
In a lot of ways, you might think of the colony Don’t let the simplicity fool you, however. 
as the real player character: It is, after all, almost Outflanking the enemy to fire on them without 
a living thing that can be injured or even die. the benefit of cover is often critical to winning, 
You may find that at first glance, you may feel especially since the enemy may match you in 
like you are not in command of your destiny. sheer volume of fire. Make sure your characters 
As you play more, you will begin to notice the are working together in pairs or in threes so 
subtle ways in which you can alleviate random they can support each other, especially when an 
occurrences. The thrust of the campaign is that, enemy specialist gets the drop on you.
on a long enough timeline, the colony will fail 
due to morale concerns unless you actively A constant question when developing a solo 
work to get to where you need to go. game is how much emphasis should be given 

to sealing off loopholes that a crafty player can 
Some players will want to focus very narrowly exploit to get ahead. In my opinion, effort spent 
on achieving a particular victory condition, here is often better spent somewhere else, and 
while others will prefer playing and exploring I suspect that, in the end, most players would 
