of turns. Each of these is divided into the BATTLE STEPS
following steps, which you must progress 7.	 Lock and Load
through in order. While the number of steps 
may appear daunting at first, at its heart, each 8.	 Play out your Mission
turn is a tactical mission with pre-battle and 
post-battle stages. POST-BATTLE STEPS

9.	 Injuries
PRE-BATTLE STEPS 10.	 Experience progression

1.	 Recovery 11.	 Colony Morale adjustments
2.	 Repairs 12.	 Track Enemy Information and Mission Data
3.	 Scout reports 13.	 Replacement Phase
4.	 Enemy Actions 14.	 Research Phase
5.	 Colony events 15.	 Building Phase
6.	 Mission determination 16.	 Colony Integrity Phase

17.	 Character event
Sick Bay 18.	 Update rosters
If a character has suffered an injury that requires 
recovery time, they are in Sick Bay. They cannot When you complete the last step, a new 
be selected for missions either by choice or campaign turn can begin. 
randomly. They can be the target of random 
events, however. If an event results in additional We do not match campaign turns to a specific 
recovery time, add the times together. Sick Bay time frame. If you like to keep a game diary or 
time is always measured in campaign turns. captains log, roll 2D6 to determine how many 

days pass between turns. 
If you are playing a special scenario where a 
character in Sick Bay is involved in a tabletop 
encounter, reduce their Speed by 1” and reduce Step 1: Recovery
their Toughness and Combat Skill by -1 each During this step, every character in sick bay 
(but not below Toughness 3 and  will heal, reducing the remaining recovery 
+0 Combat Skill respectively). If they are time by 1 turn. Some events and features may 
injured again, add any recovery times together. speed up this recovery process. 

Any character that is fully healed at this 
stage is ready for deployment during this 
campaign turn.

58



The Campaign

Step 2: Repairs Step 3: Scout Reports
If your colony has suffered damage, you may Each campaign turn, your scout teams are hard 
restore lost Integrity at this point (see page 87). at work exploring the world. 
Your colony repair rate indicates how many 
points of damage it can restore in one During this step you may perform one Scout 
campaign turn. For a starting colony this is Explore action and roll once on the Scout 
always 1 point per campaign turn, applied Discovery table below.
during this step. If you need additional Scouting, you can also 
If you have Raw Materials, you may spend up deploy your scouts in the field during the 
to 3 units to repair damage. Each unit repairs  Mission Determination Step (page 64) using 
1 point of colony damage. the Scouting Mission tabletop battle (page 116).

If your colony bot is currently Broken, it is 
repaired at this stage but cannot be deployed 
into combat this turn.

Scout Discovery table

D100 DISCOVERY DESCRIPTION

01-10 Routine trip The scouts find nothing at all.

11-20 Good practice The scouts find nothing, but it is a good opportunity to rehearse the basics. 
If a scout was assigned, they receive +2 XP.

The scouts report a distress signal. This campaign turn you have the choice of 
21-25 SOS signal playing a Rescue Mission. If you do not, Colony Morale drops by -3. 

Note: You do NOT suffer Morale loss from casualties sustained in this mission.
The scout vehicle crashes. If you assigned a scout, they need rescue. 
You can opt to have them escape on foot. If so, they must roll on the 

post-battle injury table but earn +2 XP if they survive, or you can play the 
26-30 Scout Down! Scout Down! mission this turn to rescue them. 

If you did not assign a scout, the crash left no survivors. 
(If you would really like to play the mission, go ahead and do so this turn.  

You get +1 Colony Morale for your dedication). 

31-60 Exploration Select any sector that has not yet been Explored and generate 
report Resource and Hazard levels. 

If there are Tactical Enemies on the map, select one and add an Enemy 
61-70 Recon patrol Information for them. If there are currently no Tactical Enemies present,  

treat this as no event.

71-80 Ancient Sign Randomly select a map sector, then mark that it has an Ancient Sign within it. 
Completing any mission in the sector awards the Ancient Sign.

Randomly pick a map sector. If it is not yet Explored, generate Resource and 
81-00 Revised survey Hazard levels normally. If it is Explored but not yet Exploited, 

increase the Resource level by +1. If it has already been Exploited, 
generate new Resource and Hazard levels. You can Exploit it again.

59



The Campaign

Scout Actions Note that you are not required to make a Scout 
Scout Explore: Select a map sector that is not Discovery roll if you do not wish to. 
enemy occupied, and which has not already 
been Exploited. Roll 2D6 twice and pick the You may assign one of your scout characters 
lowest score each time. The first score is the to lead the expedition. You are not required 
Resource Level of the sector, the second score to do this, and it does not prevent them from 
is the Hazard Level of the sector. undertaking a mission this campaign turn. 

Scouts in Sick Bay cannot be assigned.
For example, if the first roll is 2, 5 and the 
second is 4, 4 the sector has Resource Level 2, Process Enemy Information: To track down 
Hazard Level 4. and destroy each enemy, you will have 

to collect Enemy Information as to the 
Mark the values on the map. whereabouts of their leadership and hideouts. 
The Resource Level determines how likely you Enemy Information represent snippets of 
are to find valuable materials in that sector intercepted communications, trails in the 
while the Hazard Level is a measure of how wilderness, interrogation results from captured 
dangerous the place is. These values are used enemies, and perhaps even infiltration and 
during Exploration Missions in the sector. espionage.

If you roll a double 4, double 5, or double 6 If you have obtained Enemy Information 
when Exploring, the sector also contains an regarding the plans of an enemy, you may 
Ancient Sign (see page 61). now try to piece it all together: 

Scout Discovery (optional action): For each enemy for which you have gathered 
Your scout teams are constantly patrolling Enemy Information, roll 1D6 and compare to 
the area around the colony and scanning the the number of Enemy Information you have 
countryside. After carrying out your Scout for that enemy. Note that Enemy Information 
Explore action, you may roll D100 on the table is specific to a particular enemy and does not 
on page 59 to determine what you find. transfer over in any way.

60



The Campaign

If the roll is equal to or below the number of 
Enemy Information, you have tracked down Ancient Signs
one of their Bosses and can attempt the Strike 
Mission to capture them. If you roll higher, the The world is full of the remnants of incredibly 
current position is unknown. ancient civilizations, but to locate the Ancient 

Sites and explore them, you must first obtain 
You may roll for each enemy you have Enemy Ancient Signs either as a result of scouting 
Information for, but you can Strike only one of activities or other campaign factors. 
them during a given campaign turn. Each time you obtain an Ancient Sign, you may 
If you do not attempt the mission this roll 1D6. On a roll equal to or below the number 
campaign turn, it fails, or you rolled above the of Ancient Signs you have so far, you succeed in 
number of Enemy Information, you can try locating an Ancient Site, allowing you to carry out 
again in future campaign turns, rolling against a Delve expedition (see page 130).
the number of Enemy Information again and 
attempting the mission if you succeed. Randomly pick a map sector the Site is inside. It 

can even be within your colony (located beneath 
Note that if you have 6 Enemy Information it in a cave complex or similar).
already, you have completely deciphered the 
enemy communications channels and can If a Site is located in enemy territory, you must 
always opt to carry out the Strike. Excess Enemy drive them out first. If it is not in enemy territory, 
Information is ignored. you can attempt the Delve as the campaign turn’s 

main mission whenever you choose.
Once you have captured a Boss, there is no 
need to collect Enemy Information for that If you roll above the number of Ancient 
enemy any longer. Signs, you are not there yet. Keep track of the 

number of Signs, rolling again when you next 
Randomly select which enemy held sector the obtain one.
Boss is present in this turn. Once you successfully locate a site, all Signs you 

currently have are discarded. 
Step 4: Enemy Activity

Ancient Signs Everywhere!
While you are going about your business, the 
enemy has plans of their own. These schemes If you receive multiple Signs in a single 
are not always directed at you: Enemies are campaign turn, they are tested one at a time. 
often just as busy dealing with hostile wildlife, Once you have a success, all Signs tested 
Slyn raids, and each other. so far are discarded but you may start over 

testing any remaining Signs to find the next 
If any Tactical Enemies are present on the Ancient Site. 
map, randomly pick one and roll D100 on the 
Enemy Activity table below. If there are none 
currently on the map, skip this step.

Waiting for the Right Moment
Disruption
If you won a battle against the selected enemy You may forego a roll on the Enemy Activity table 
last turn, they do NOT carry out an activity on the next page by spending 1 Story Point. 
unless they are the Converted. This is often an inefficient way of spending a 
