unless they are the Converted. This is often an inefficient way of spending a 

point, but if you are in a situation where you 
really don’t want to risk an attack, it offers a 
chance to buy a little more time. 

61



The Campaign

Enemy Activity table

D100 ENEMY 
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION

The enemy is sending out patrols near their controlled zones. 

01-25 Patrol Normally this is not something you have to worry about but, if you wish, 
you may choose to play a Strike Mission this turn to track down an enemy 

Leader and gain 1 Enemy Information. 
The enemy is shifting their deployments.

26-35 Relocate Randomly pick an enemy-occupied sector. They move to a random 
adjacent unoccupied sector. If the selected sector is your colony, they launch 

a Raid (see below on this table) and move in the opposite direction.
The enemy expands into a random adjacent sector. You can pick any 

that seems to work, or you can randomly select an existing sector and then 
pick an unoccupied adjacent sector. 

36-65 Occupy If this would be your colony, treat this result as a “Raid” result 
instead (see below). 

If this would be a sector occupied by another enemy, randomly determine 
who gains control of the sector.

66-75 Rapid expansion As “Occupy”, above, but two adjacent sectors are occupied. 
The enemy launches an attack on you.

76-90 Attack Play the Pitched Battle mission this campaign turn. 
If you lose, you take damage as per “Raid” below.

The enemy launches a sneak attack on your colony.

You suffer Colony Damage equal to the number of map sectors this enemy 
91-00 Raid occupies +1 (for example, if they occupy 3 sectors, you take 4 damage). 

If you have Colony Defenses, roll D6s equal to the number of defenses 
you have. Every die rolling a 4+ negates a point of damage. 

Step 5: Colony Events
The Universe Hates Me! Life on Home is unpredictable, and anything 
(optional rule) can happen. Roll D100 on the Colony Events 
Sometimes the forces of the universe table to determine which event takes place 
seem to align against you as a generator this campaign turn and implement the result 
explodes, a colonist patrol is eaten by Vesirian immediately. 
Stalkercrawlers, and the research department 
explains that what they thought was a perpetual If the effects of an event turn out to be 
energy source was in fact no such thing impossible to implement, ignore it. Instead,  

no event occurs during this campaign turn.
If you have 3 negative colony events in a row, 
add +1 Story Point. Remember: Colony Damage also results in a 

loss of Morale.

62



The Campaign

Colony Events table

D100 COLONY 
EVENT DESCRIPTION

01-05 Research One of the researchers had an epiphany that will solve a stubborn problem.
breakthrough Receive 2 Research Points.

Whether a moment of neglect or a procedural failure, there is a major accident.
06-10 Catastrophic 

malfunction You suffer 1 Colony Damage that cannot be mitigated. 
Adjust Colony Morale by -1.

11-15 Rapid Streamlining the process has made great strides.
construction Receive 2 Building Points.

Colony administration needs to put its best foot forward.
Select a character who will not be able to participate in a mission this 

16-20 Public relations 
demand campaign turn. They can be character currently in Sick Bay if they have only  

one turn of recovery left. If you choose not to do so, adjust Colony Morale 
 by -2 as unrest spreads.

Colony life requires elite skills, and a crash course program can 
determine qualified candidates.

21-25 Specialist training 
program initiated You may either add a new character to your roster if you have a vacancy 

OR grant +3 XP to an existing character.

26-30 Scientific A promising hypothesis turns out to lead nowhere.
dead end Your next 3 Research Points earned are wasted.

31-35 New scout A recruiting campaign has allowed the scout service to expand operations.
recruits You may carry out a free Scout action.

Colonists exploring have unveiled promising resource caches.

36-40 Gold Rush Select 2 random sectors: If they are unexplored or have previously been 
Exploited, roll to generate Resource and Hazard values. If they are Explored 

but have not yet been Exploited, increase the Resource value by +1.
Unconfirmed reports indicate something of particular interest.

41-45 Colonists find
Receive 1 Ancient Sign.

The colonists are complaining about the hazards in the field. 
46-50 Hostile wildlife

Unless you play a Patrol Mission this turn, adjust Colony Morale by -2.
The core team undergoes expanded and refresher training.

51-55 New training 
program initiated Every character on your roster receives 1 XP. 

You may also add an additional grunt.
While it is not ready for mass production, a new drug extracted 

from local flora is showing promising results.
56-60 Experimental 

local medicine Select a character recovering from injuries and reduce their recovery time by 
2 turns. If the character is completely recovered, they can act normally  

this campaign turn. Increase Colony Morale by +1.
Spare parts The repair crews have improved their recovery program. 

61-65 efficiency Any damaged bots are repaired immediately. 
program Also, repair 2 points of Colony Damage.  

63



The Campaign

D100 COLONY 
EVENT DESCRIPTION

The report to Unity colonization headquarters highlights 
66-70 Report on the hard work of a crew member.

progress
Select one character to earn 1D6 XP. Increase Colony Morale by +1.

The wildlife migrates according to changes in weather conditions.
71-75 Animal 

migrations Erase a random existing entry from your Lifeform Encounter Table and leave  
it blank. It is filled again when you roll that entry again.

A particularly virulent infection has bypassed your 
biological containment systems.

Roll a D6 for each character on your roster; any who roll a natural 1 
have contracted the virus. Once you have rolled for every character, 

76-80 Hostile virus for each infected character pick a random non-infected character and 
roll again. Continue until no more natural 1s are rolled.

Each infected character must spend 1D3 campaign turns in Sick Bay.  
Roll separately for each.

Adjust Colony Morale by -2.
Planetary phenomena change unpredictably.

81-85 Changing climate 
conditions Erase a random existing entry from your Campaign Conditions table. 

It is filled again when you roll that entry again.
Widespread protests break out due to dissatisfaction with administrative 

86-90 Colony unrest attention to a minor issue.
Adjust Colony Morale by -3.

A Unity supply ship is en route carrying spare parts and fresh supplies.
Select either Research or Build Points to be the priority, then roll 2D6. You 

91-95 Supply ship receive the highest die for your priority choice and the lowest for the other 
choice. For example, if RP was the priority and you roll 4 and 2, you would get 

+4 RP and +2 BP.
Add +1 grunt to your roster.

You realize that you are ultimately on your own out here.
96-00 Sense of 

foreboding You cannot use any Story Points for the rest of this campaign turn.

Step 6: Mission Determination
Once you have reviewed your scout and enemy ◆	 You may visit a sector that has not yet 
action reports, you can determine your primary been Explored and explore it by playing a 
mission for this campaign turn. Scouting Mission.
If you have been attacked, you may be required ◆	 You may go to a sector that is marked for 
to play the Pitched Battle mission to defend Investigation to look for interesting and 
your colony. unusual items. This has the chance of 
If the choice is up to you, you may have a finding Mission Data which can help you 
number of options available: discover the truth about this world. Play an 

Investigation Mission.

64



The Campaign

◆	 You may go to a sector that has been These missions are undertaken to avoid 
Explored (meaning it has Resource values), negative consequences.
but which is not yet Exploited (meaning the 
Resource value is 1 or higher). If so, play an For more information on all missions and to 
Exploration Mission if you want to search inform the next step, “Lock and Load”, see the 
for fresh resources to bolster the colony.  missions detailed on pages 114-133.
You can instead play a Science Mission  
if you want to focus on research samples  Step 7: Lock and Load
to improve your research programs.  
Typically, if you do not have more pressing When deploying for a mission, you may bring 
needs, you will want to attempt this. characters from your roster. The mission will 

state how many characters you can deploy and 
◆	 You might Hunt for Lifeforms in order to of which types. You are not required to bring 

collect samples for bio-analysis. characters of a particular class along, though 
◆	 You may opt to stay close to the colony and having scouts and scientists on your team 

conduct a Patrol Mission. This can be used when exploring can assist you in gaining better 
to explore map sectors near the colony. It rewards after the mission.
can also be used to safeguard against future Characters in Sick Bay cannot be deployed. 
morale loss for the colony, provided it is If a character completed their last point of 
done with minimal casualties. recovery this campaign turn, they are ready for 

◆	 If there are Tactical Enemies on the map deployment, if desired.
(meaning you have completed at least one You may fill any of your slots with bots or 
Milestone) you may try to capture a sector civvies, if you like. Civvies are less capable than 
from the enemy. If this is your choice, play any other character options, but you may be 
the Skirmish Mission. This is a good option required to bring some, due to casualties and 
to gain combat experience. injuries or because you are hoping to receive 

Some mission types are dependent on a few promotions. (For more on civvies, see 
campaign events: page 17).

◆	 If a Tactical Enemy is conducting a Patrol If you have 2-4 grunts, they are organized into a 
or you have located a Boss, you may single fireteam. If you have more than 4, divide 
launch a Strike Mission. This will help them as evenly as possible into two fireteams.  
you track down the enemy Strongpoint in (For more on fireteams, see pages 16 and 30.)
preparation for a final attack. You can always choose to bring fewer than the 

◆	 If you have located a Strongpoint of a Tactical allowed characters if you would prefer to do so. 
Enemy, you may launch an Assault Mission. There is no inherent advantage to doing so, but 
This is a major attack where the enemy is you may have a self-imposed challenge such 
making their last stand. You need to bring as not using civvy characters or you may just 
everything you have for this one. prefer a greater challenge. 

◆	 If you have located an Ancient Site, you may 
launch a Delve to look for treasures.

◆	 The results of the scouts’ report may result in 
a Rescue Mission or Scout Down! mission.

65



The Campaign

Step 8: Play Out Your Mission casualty is marked “Broken” on your campaign 
Set up your gaming table (see Battlefield roster and cannot be used until repaired.
Set-up, page 138) and play out the mission you For each casualty, roll D100 and consult the 
selected to play this campaign turn. Injury table below for their fate. 
Make sure to track any casualties and other Some abilities may permit rerolls for injuries. If 
events that occur during the game. this is the case, you may make all your required 

If you intend to share a battle report rolls first and then choose which to reroll. If a 
of your games online, make sure character has a reroll specific to themselves, it is 

to take photos during the only usable on them.
battle! It can be really If a character is killed, any items they carried are 
frustrating to have had a destroyed. This is primarily of interest when it 

great game and then comes to artifacts you have found.  
realize that you got 
carried away and do Grunt Casualties
not have any photos of Grunts casualties are handled simply. Roll 1D6 

the action. for each grunt that became a casualty; on 1-2, 
they have either died, their injuries were so 

Step 9: Injuries severe they cannot continue the mission, or 
they opt to retire to less dangerous pursuits. On 

Characters that became battle casualties may 3-6, they are okay and recover in time for the 
have suffered a range of fates: They may have next mission.
been knocked out or become lost during the 
confusion, they may have been wounded, or You begin the campaign with 12 grunts. 
they may have died outright. In this step you Mark down whenever one becomes a 
determine their fates. permanent casualty.

Injury rolls are made for any scientist, scout, 
trooper, or crew if they were removed from play 
due to becoming casualties in a tabletop battle.
Civvies do not roll on this table as they are 
never recurring characters (though you may 
like to do so for roleplay purposes). Bots do not 
roll for injuries. Instead, any bot that became a 

Injury table

D100 INJURY DESCRIPTION

01-20 Dead The character is gone. 
21-30 Seriously wounded The character must recover for 5 campaign turns.
31-45 Moderately wounded The character must recover for 4 campaign turns.
46-60 Lightly wounded The character must recover for 2 campaign turns.
61-95 Okay The character is okay.

96-00 School of hard knocks The character is okay and gains +1 XP as they reflect 
on their experiences.

66



The Campaign

Step 10: Experience Progression
Your characters will learn from their Cowardice
experiences as the campaign progresses, A character that is moved off a battlefield edge 
leading to improvements in their abilities on in the first two rounds of a battle forfeits all XP 
the battlefield. awards from that battle. Note that characters that 
Progression is measured with Experience become casualties in the first two rounds are 
