Your roster of eight initial characters includes Prior Experience
four experienced characters who have had Prior experience details what earlier careers 
longer careers behind them and bring a wider or life paths the character may have followed. 
range of talents into the colonization project. Experienced characters roll on this table. If 
If you have now chosen your eight roster you want a more detailed story, roll twice, 
characters, select which characters to define as treating the first roll as history just after 
experienced. adulthood and the second roll as history just 
For each experienced character, roll on each of prior to being recruited. Claim the bonus for 
the three tables below – Motivations, Prior the second roll only. 
Experience, and Notable Event – and track any Note that prior experience does not have to 
modifications listed. line up with the class chosen (though you are 
The four inexperienced characters are welcome to do so). The colonization programs 
straight out of their professional training screen for mindset as much as for skills, and 
programs. They will roll on the Motivation someone with an army career may well have 
table only. the outlook that the scientific teams need. After 

all, practical experience can be accelerated 
Motivations through Hyper-Learning Implants. The long 
What compels someone to leave everything and the short of it is that you are free to make 
they know behind and set out on a dangerous interesting character combinations if you like. 
and uncertain path among the stars? The Inexperienced characters do not receive any 
motivations of a character will become bonuses from this table. By default, they do not 
important in the campaign endgame. roll on it but, if you prefer to add a bit of flavor, 
Both experienced and inexperienced characters you can do so. They are assumed to have only 
roll on this table. been in that career or path for a brief period 

before being recruited.
Motivation table

D100 MOTIVATION NOTES

01-11 Curiosity If you didn’t go, someone else would get to see all the 
cool stuff instead.

12-22 Personal Achievement Promotion, glory, or a place in the history books. 
23-34 Loyalty Doing your duty for your organization.
35-41 Danger It’s not a death-wish if you survive.
42-50 Independence Striking out on your own.
51-56 Circumstance This is where you ended up.
57-63 Progress The advancement of the Human species. 
64-72 Adventure Excitement, amazing sights, and thrills.
73-82 Exploration Mapping out the galaxy one world at a time.
83-89 Greater Cause Being part of something much greater than yourself. 
90-95 Escape Getting away from something or someone.
96-00 Obligation Fulfilling a responsibility, promise, or expectation.

21



Your Colony Crew

Any listed ability score increases are added 
to the basic starting profile. Story Points are 
added to the total for the campaign. Bonus XP 
are tracked for the character on the roster. 

Prior Experience table

D100 PRIOR 
EXPERIENCE NOTES BONUS

01-05 Army Unity armed forces or a mercenary outfit +1 Reactions

06-11 Freelancer Salvage missions, questionable jobs, and a bit of 
light mercenary work +1 Reactions

12-21 Researcher Science, information gathering, and analysis 
(often corporate in nature) +1 Savvy

22-27 Trader Independent space merchant or 
sector-level corporation +3 XP

28-37 Orphan Utility 
program Raised and given an education by Unity Loyalty begins as 

Loyal

38-44 Unity Agent Affiliated with one of the many clandestine covert Loyalty begins as 
operations programs maintained by Unity Loyal

45-48 Bug Hunter Served in one of the Bug Hunting squads; 
flinches when motion trackers beep +1 KP

49-56 Administration Dutiful work in sector administration or the  Loyalty begins as 
Unity Bureaucracy itself Loyal

57-61 Corporate Worked for one of the giga-corporations +1 Savvy
62-70 Explorer Independent explorer or part of the Unity scout fleet +1 Speed
71-77 Adventurer Often driven by thrills and the promise of riches Begins with 3 XP

78-82 Records Deleted No records found: please contact sector-level 
Enforcement Command for details +1 Toughness

83-87 Enforcer Sector-level law enforcement or Unity Security +1 Toughness
88-96 Fleet Officer or enlisted on a Unity military vessel +3 XP

97-00 Access Denied Please insert Unity ID chip of security level 5Z or Begin with 
adjacent. Unauthorized access is prohibited. 1 additional 

Story Point

Notable Event Inexperienced characters normally have not 
Each experienced character will have a Notable been around long enough to have experienced 
Event that occurred in their life. If you want any Notable Event, though if you roll multiple 
more detailed characters, you can roll up times for the experienced characters you may 
to three times, with events occurring in the want to roll once for inexperienced characters. 
order you rolled them. A colorful option is to 
interweave the results with the former table. Rolls on this table do not affect gameplay. 

22



Your Colony Crew

Notable Event table

D100 NOTABLE EVENT NOTES

01-05 Journey You went somewhere far from home.
06-10 Establish family You established or expanded your family, adopted or otherwise.
11-15 Betrayal Someone betrayed you or you betrayed someone.
16-20 Personal advancement You made great strides as a person.
21-25 Disaster struck A dreadful disaster struck you, your organization, or your home.
26-30 Injured You were seriously injured or sick.
31-35 Joined a group You joined an organization, community, or philosophical movement.
36-40 Changed perspective Life changed how you look at things.
41-45 Went missing You spent a period of time when nobody knew where you were.
46-50 Did a good deed Without expecting a reward, you did the right thing.
51-55 Became a student You decided to learn a new skill or career.
56-60 Was framed You did nothing but you got blamed regardless.
61-65 Made a mistake You screwed up and it got noticed.
66-70 Progressed a career You made advances in your career.
71-75 Good luck Something lucky and unlikely happened.
76-80 Confrontation You had a showdown with a rival or threat.
81-85 Great danger You experienced great physical danger.
86-90 Narrow escape Once arrested, destitute, or nearly dead, you eventually came out ahead.
91-95 Second chance Someone gave you a second chance.
96-00 Change of lifestyle You changed something fundamental about your lifestyle.

Example: perspective”), after which they transferred to 
For one of my characters, I roll the following: one of the minor galactic corporations before 

enlisting in a colonization effort (“Trader”). 
◆	 Motivation: Danger
◆	 Prior experience: Explorer / Trader
◆	 Notable events: Good luck / Went missing Equipment

/ Changed perspective. At the outset, the colony operates a central 
As my character is obviously a thrill seeker equipment store rather than characters owning 
(“Danger”), I’m going to rationalize these as: individual items. Characters are assigned 
They were offered a spot on an exploration standard equipment when a mission begins, 
mission (“Explorer”) by an officer that with options according to class-based training. 
happened to notice them at the academy When creating your roster, leave the character 
(“Good luck”). During one of the long-range items blank, and fill out this section once your 
missions, their ship was lost and recovered after characters receive the mission briefing (during 
drifting in space for weeks (“Went missing”). the ‘Lock and Load’ step of the campaign turn, 
The brush with death caused their family to page 65). The Armory section on page 75 
demand they choose a safer job (“Changed details the standard colonial weapons.

23



Your Colony Crew

Voice Note 2144.Alpha. 
Scout Ship Taurine, 5th Survey Group.
“As you can see, the landscape is dotted 
with strange ruins and collapsed structures, 
potentially dating back thousands of years. Some 
are completely overgrown, while others jut into 
the sky. Their construction varies, some jet-black 
stone, others showing clear signs of extensive 
circuitry and power conduits. Deep penetration 
scans are inconclusive about what lurks within 
these ruins. Based on previous reports, we’ve 
been careful not to disturb any sentinels. And Character Loyalty
this is just one valley, repeated across the world. 
Whatever was here before was on a huge scale.” Characters can exhibit three stages of loyalty to 

the administration:
◆	 Loyal: They believe strongly in the mission 

Experience and are unlikely to be a security risk.
As you undertake missions and train, your ◆	 Committed: This is the default state and 
characters will build up their Experience represents the character just trying to do 
Points (XP) which are tracked individually for their job.
each character.

◆	 Disloyal: They believe that the 
The XP you earn can be cashed in for upgrades administration is leading them down a 
that will improve character performance. poor path or has begun associating with 
Progressing an already talented character can dissident groups.
really improve your chances, but players should 
take care not to over-specialize: The unexpected Your rolls on the character creation tables may 
death of an elite character can leave a serious result in some characters being Loyal. Imported 
hole in your line up if your replacements are all characters also begin the campaign Loyal. 
green recruits straight out of the Academy. You Everyone else should be marked as Committed.
may find that it advantageous to bring along Note: Grunts do not have Loyalty ratings and 
a rookie or two on a mission, so they can get are never affected by events or factors that 
some experience under their belts. modify Loyalty.

24



Your Colony Crew

Name your Characters
Name Mage

Finally, name your characters to help bring nta Calvin XP 3
Rea

them to life and to make it all the more ctions 1 Class Scout
poignant when you lose them [yes, when, Speed 5" Sub-species Human
not if…]. Combat +0 Loyalty ✓ KP 0

T
When you have eight characters on your roster, ough. 3 Upgrades
and have read the Combat Rules (page 28), Savvy +0
play some initial missions (see ‘Planetfall’, Items/Notes
page 44) before starting a full campaign. Motivation: Danger

The Administrator
The Administrator represents you in the Typically, they will be on the colony to direct 
campaign. When decisions are being made things in person, but they could also be located 
about the colony, they come from the in an orbiting station.
Administrator and reflect your priorities and 
decisions in the campaign. Unlike the other To determine the Administrator past history for 
characters, there are no stats or miniatures. flavor purposes, roll or pick on the table below.
The Administrator does not take the field in You may choose to take this career 
missions and cannot engage in combat. into account when making 
Many players will want to paint a miniature to decisions. For example, a prior 
represent their Administrator. You can leave military Administrator may prefer 
it sitting at the side of the table for good luck a strong military presence. 
when playing a tabletop battle, or leave a dice However, you are not 
next to it to show the campaign turn. required to do so and 

can make your own 
You should decide the physical presence of decisions at any time.
your Administrator for roleplay purposes. 

D100 CAREER PAST HISTORY

01-08 Unity armed forces Former officer in Unity ground forces
09-21 Exploration service Officer of prolonged survey mission
22-37 Colonial Prior experience colonizing new worlds
38-48 Unity field agent Former special agent (all classified!)
49-56 Corporate Rose through the ranks of a mega-corp

57-67 Unity Bureaucracy From administration of a Core world to 
administration of a colony

68-76 Diplomatic Handled sensitive political conditions 
between galactic powers

77-88 Unity fleet Former Unity military ship commander

89-00 Scientist Worked on a colonization-relevant 
scientific project

25



Your Colony Crew

Imported Characters
Treat any character brought in from another Five Parsecs Bug Hunt characters
Five Parsecs game as Crew: Specialists with 
unique skills now attached to the mission. ◆	 All ability scores remain the same. Tech is 

converted to Savvy (or vice versa).
Five Parsecs from Home characters Five Parsecs Tactics characters
◆	 All ability scores remain the same. 

◆	 Ability scores except Kill Points and Training 
◆	 They will retain any combat abilities they remain the same.

had in that game.
◆	 Reduce Kill Points by 1 to match how they 

◆	 Characters with Luck points receive 1 Kill are calculated in Planetfall. 
Point per Luck point they would have had. 

◆	
Kill Points are explained in the combat Training is not used in Planetfall.  
rules (see page 39). Optionally, you may ◆	 Veteran Skills are retained when applicable 
prefer using the Luck system from the to Planetfall rules set.
original rules.

Class Training
Some promising individuals will be given 
expanded training when attached to a mission. 
If you are importing characters, you may train 
up to three characters as follows:
◆	 A single character may be given the  

