
Each Theory has two costs listed: The first is 
the RP cost to fully research it. The second cost Specific Research (optional rule)
listed for each Theory is the RP cost to gain an 
Application in that field (see below). The random roll for Applications reflects that 

your research team has their own agendas and 
For example, 5/3 means it costs 5 RP to develop ideas. It also lessens attempts to “optimize” the 
the Theory and 3 RP for each Application. path through the game. If you find that to be 

less appealing, as an optional rule pick the exact 
Applications Applications you want to develop. A fun middle 
Each Theory unlocks a number of Applications ground is to roll for the first Application in the 
when it is fully paid. Theory and then pick from that point onwards. 
To then acquire an Application, you pay the 
Application research cost. However, there is Flavoring Research
no guarantee that this research produces your 
highest priority outcome first. Instead, when As with buildings, research topics are really 
the cost has been paid, randomly select from game functions, and you should absolutely 
the Applications you have not yet discovered to rename them to fit your setting, especially if the 
see which outcome the research has produced. basic technological assumptions differ markedly 
Use any appropriate die type to select. from those of the Unified Space setting. As 

the author found writing this game, inventing 
◆	 Applications marked with (Bonus) provide technobabble is also a lot of fun!

an increase in colony capabilities.
◆	 (Building) allows a new building to be ◆	 Orbital facility (Milestone Building)

constructed.
◆	 Resource substitution (Bonus): 

◆	 (Milestone Building) indicates that this is +1 to Colony Integrity
one of the buildings that must be completed 
to finish the campaign. AI THEORIES

Cost: 4/4 RP
◆	 (Weapon) allows a new weapon to be 

deployed by your squads. New weapons are With the number of workers strictly limited,  
available immediately. AI must be pressed into a wider range of fields. 

This field serves to expand your capabilities in a 
ADVANCED MANUFACTURING variety of supporting fields.
Cost: 3/3 RP

◆	 AI-assisted school (Building); 
For the colony to prosper, it must both employ Colony bot improves Combat Skill to +1
cutting edge manufacturing techniques 
but also adapt them to local conditions and ◆	 Bot maintenance bay (Building)
materials. Pursuing Advanced Manufacturing ◆	 Cybernetics facility (Building); 
allows you to bolster the ability of the colony to Colony bot improves Speed to 6”
meet its construction goals.

◆	 Enhanced predictive simulation (Bonus): 
◆	 Damage containment centre (Building) Increase per campaign turn RP by +1
◆	 High tech manufacturing plant (Building); ◆	 Social disorder prediction (Bonus): 

Colony bots receive 1 KP Increase Colony Morale by +4
◆	 Improved construction materials (Bonus): 

+1 to Colony Integrity

93



Colonies

INFANTRY EQUIPMENT ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH
Cost: 2/2 RP Cost: 2/3 RP
Our troops face the need for equipment A foundational understanding of the 
tailored to their specific environment and ecological constraints we are facing must be 
the threat profiles present here. This will established. This field provides a wide range 
expand the tactical combat options available of improvements.
to our colonists.

◆	 Hardened life support system (Building)
◆	 Carver blade (Weapon); 

Sergeant weaponry ◆	
 available as  Locally adapted food production site 

Grunt upgrade. (Building); 
Adapted armor available as Grunt upgrade.

◆	 Kill-Break shotgun (Weapon)
◆	 Remote research station (Building): 

◆	 Ripper pistol (Weapon) +1 Mission Data.
◆	 Shard pistol (Weapon); ◆	 Remote extraction site (Building)

Side arms available as Grunt upgrade.
◆	 Scout facilities (Building)

◆	 Steady rifle (Weapon); 
Colony bot able to use Trooper weapons. Environmental Research also acts as a 

prerequisite to developing Environmental 
Infantry Equipment also acts as a prerequisite Adaptation (below).
to developing Adapted Combat Gear (below).

Environmental Adaptation
Adapted Combat Gear Cost: 3/3 RP 
Cost: 2/2 RP (Prerequisite: Environmental Research)
(Prerequisite: Infantry Equipment) Large scale modification of our colony 
The next step in tactical assimilation is to structures and research programs can be 
utilize the resources of our new environment developed based on predominant conditions. 
to produce military hardware. This will further Many paths to victory require delving into 
expand the tactical combat options available to this field.
our colonists.

◆	 Immune system bio-delineation (Bonus): 
◆	 Bio-gun (Weapon) +1 Augmentation Point; 

Bolstered survival kit available as  
◆	 Dart pistol (Weapon) Grunt upgrade.
◆	 Hyper-rifle (Weapon)

◆	 Integrated post-organic demarcation 
◆	 Mind-link pistol (Weapon) (Milestone)
◆	 Phase rifle (Weapon) ◆	 Terraforming control center (Milestone 

building)
◆	 Viral elimination therapy (Bonus): 

+1 Augmentation Point.

94



Colonies

GENETIC ADVANCEMENT Psionic Engineering
Cost: 4/4 RP Cost: 4/4 RP (Prerequisite: Genetic 
We must question the limitations of the Advancement)
biological frame as it typically exists. This field Cutting edge techniques can be established 
offers substantial benefits to bolstering our to optimize our personnel with psi-logical 
biological defenses on this new world. enhancements. This field is beneficial to 

those with particular ideas about the future of 
◆	 Advanced medical center (Building) Humanity.
◆	 Neuro-adjustment therapy (Bonus): 

◆	
Increase Colony Morale by +3. Mental bio-uplift therapy (Bonus): 

+2 Augmentation Points
◆	 Reverse-optimization of genetics (Bonus): 

◆	
+1 Augmentation Point. Psionic personality integration (Milestone)

◆	 Psionic re-engineering principles (Bonus): 
◆	 Sub-specific genetic addition techniques 

(Bonus): +1 Augmentation Point. +2 Augmentation Points

Genetic Advancement also acts as a MILITARY DOCTRINE
prerequisite to developing both High Level Cost: 3/3 RP
Adaptation and Psionic Engineering (below). Updated tactical approaches must be 
High Level Adaptation developed for field combat in an unpredictable 
Cost: 4/4 RP environment. Research into new doctrines will 
(Prerequisite: Genetic Advancement) help you defend the colony more efficiently.

To establish a long-term presence here, ◆	 Civil preparation drills (Bonus): Increase 
we are authorized to employ experimental Colony Morale by +3.
measures of adaptation both biological and ◆	 Early warning system (Building); 
psychological. Achieving full adaptation to our Sharpshooter sight available as  
new world will require pursuing this field. Grunt upgrade.
◆	 Adapted protective shield installation ◆	 Military barracks (Building); 

(Building) Ammo packs available as Grunt upgrade. 
◆	 Biological adaptation research site (Building) Troopers may now take handguns in 

addition to their normal equipment.
◆	 Genetic adaptation facility (Milestone 

◆	
Building) Med-evac shuttle facility (Building)

◆	 Rapid response network (Building)
◆	 Hyper-resonant molecular adjustment 

(Bonus): +1 Augmentation Point
◆	 Localized adaptation therapy (Bonus): 

+1 Augmentation Point

95



Colonies

SOCIAL THEORIES THEORETICAL PHYSICS
Cost: 3/3 RP Cost: 4/3 RP
Colonial life is difficult and requires new “If we can negotiate the Neuenstein limit 
approaches to social organization and conflict through the use of counter-processed dark 
management. This allows you to improve the matter, then we could…”. Theoretical Physics is 
morale and endurance of your colonists. a foundation for a scientifically minded colony.
◆	 Frontier world doctrines (Milestone) ◆	 Environmental control facility (Building)
◆	 Integrated conflict resolution (Bonus): ◆	 Galactic comms relay (Milestone building)

Increase Colony Morale by +4
◆	 Research laboratory (Building); 

◆	 Post-democratic consensus mechanics Colony bots improve to 5+ Saving Throw.
(Bonus): Increase Colony Morale by +4

◆	 School of theoretical sciences (Building); 
◆	 Recreational facility (Building) +1 Mission Data.
◆	 Satellite launch facility (Building) Theoretical Physics also acts as a prerequisite to 

developing Non-Linear Physics (below).

Game Currencies: A Recap Non-Linear Physics
Resource management means tracking plenty Cost: 4/3 RP 
of commodities. Here’s a recap of where to  (Prerequisite: Theoretical Physics)
find them: “By inverting the psionic capability of the  
Ancient Signs: See page 61. White Void radiation pulse, it would be possible 
Augmentation Points: See page 105. to create a K-68 feedback loop which…”.
Build Points: See page 96. Colonies that intend to continue their scientific 
Calamity Points: See page 165. development will have to delve into the field of 
Colony Defenses: See page 87. Non-Linear Physics. 
Colony Integrity: See page 87.
Colony Morale: See page 89. ◆	 Academy (Building); 
Enemy Information: See page 51. Colony bot improves to Reactions 3.
Experience Points: See page 67. ◆	 Colony shield network (Building)
Hazard level: See pages 53 and 60.
Mission Data: See page 169. ◆	 Scientific training facility (Building); 
Research Points: See page 91. +1 Mission Data.
Resource level: See pages 53 and 60.
Raw Materials: See page 88.
Story Points: See page 56.

96



Colonies

Buildings

Building Basics Construction
Your colony will require a variety of facilities Constructing new Buildings is done through 
and workshops to function and prosper. Most Build Points (BP). Your colony receives 1 BP 
are abstracted into the background and don’t per campaign turn at the start of the 
need tracking, such as habitation or shop stalls, campaign, but various factors in the game  
but structures that influence campaign play are will increase this rate. 
collectively known as Buildings. Tally incoming BP, adding them to any you had 
During the Building step of the campaign saved up, then spend as many as you like (up 
turn you have the opportunity to construct to the amount you have available) on a single 
new Buildings. Each Building provides new Building. 
benefits explained in this chapter. Many have 
prerequisites that need to be met before they Each Building has a BP cost that must be paid 
can be constructed. to construct it. This can be spread over multiple 

campaign turns if required, and you may put 
In game terms, only one of each specific points towards a different Building next turn 
Building can be constructed, representing that if needed, even if you have not completed the 
type of facility becoming available throughout current project yet. Simply track the points you 
the colony as it grows. (In your own mind, your have spent so far.
colony may feature several such structures, but 
you gain an in-game benefit only for the first of Partially constructed Buildings cannot lose the 
its kind – think of it as the administrative hub of committed BP, and they cannot be reallocated 
any further buildings.) once spent. 

We recommend keeping a drawn map of the You can only put BP towards a single Building 
colony as it develops. per campaign turn. 

19

97



Colonies

Raw Materials can be used to increase Reclaiming Buildings
building rates. In the Building step of the campaign turn, you 
You can convert 1 unit of Raw Materials  may also choose to reclaim a single building. 
into 1 BP, with up to 3 units converted The building is destroyed, and you receive half 
per round. the BP cost, rounded down, in Raw Materials.

Colony Defenses
Some buildings provide Colony Defenses. 
These are rolled for when the colony is 

Flavoring Buildings subjected to an enemy attack. Each point of 
The buildings are, as far as the game is Defenses allows a D6 roll, with 4-6 negating 
concerned, primarily mechanical features that one point of Colony Damage. 
provide you with a new ability or bonus in the 
game system. The Buildings
As such the names and background information What follows is a list of every Building available 
can be taken as inspirational. If you would rather in the game. Each Building lists the BP cost, 
reskin a particular building into something and the rules benefits you receive from 
different that either fits your story or your game completing it. 
setting better, please feel free to do so. This sort 
of customizing is a fantastic way of making the Also listed are any prerequisite research 
