it: As you build your colony and explore, you you will face off against multiple foes. You 
will develop Milestones, representing major will discover these as you play the game, with 
achievements – scientific, social, and cultural – each being generated randomly the first time 
in the progress of your colony. you encounter them. As the game progresses, 
When sufficient Milestones have been reached, you will build a unique encounter list which 
you will progress to the end game, where you will further change as the lifeforms evolve to 
will have important decisions to make about fight you.
the future of the colony and perhaps even life Later in the campaign you will also have to fight 
on this world! intelligent opposition. These can range from 

pirates to colony separatists to alien invaders. 
The Tactical Game When they arrive on the world, you will engage 

in combat against these Tactical Enemies.
Your crew will regularly face dangerous 
enemies that threaten the safety and future Finally, there are the mysterious threats like the 
of the colony. This tactical game is where alien Slyn that assail you at every step and the 
your characters take to the battlefield, face mechanical Sleepers that guard the 
down the enemy, and hopefully prevail while alien ruins of the world. 
trying to carry out their mission goals. This Each type of enemy has 
plays similar to other miniatures games, with its own strengths and 
measurements, weapon weaknesses and operates 
ranges, and rolling to hit. in a unique fashion, 
As these battles are requiring you to 
both the centerpiece of adapt in order to win 
campaign turns and the battles against them. 
wargame action most You can read more 
players are familiar with, about generating the 
this rulebook covers those enemies on page 146. 
rules first.

10



Introduction

The Campaign Game
The tactical game is only half the story, Game Markers
however. The results of tactical missions feed The missions make frequent use of game 
into the campaign game, just as the results of markers. You can use your own markers or 
the campaign game determine what forces download a free PDF sheet including the 
and equipment you can bring on a mission. following from www.fiveparsecs.com:
Together, the tactical and campaign games 
create the full experience, as events in one 
inform your pursuits in the other.
For example, some tactical missions may ask 
you to resolve a problem in the main campaign Delve Hazard Delve Device Cloud
game, while at other times you will be pursuing 
specific goals in the campaign to bolster your 
troops in the field. 
◆	 For rules on beginning your main campaign, Contact Discovery / Recon Objective

the campaign turn sequence, and how to use 
and expand the armory before each mission, 
see the Campaign section, page 48.

◆	 As your colony reaches Milestones, copes 
with Calamities and progresses towards Activated Aid Delaying
the settlement’s End Game, you’ll need the 
Campaign Development section, page 155.

The Colony
The core of Planetfall is your colony. As you play, Poison Stunned Sprawling
you will construct new facilities, expanding 
your capabilities and improving your efficiency. Research
Without a well-developed colony, your 
expeditions in the field will struggle. The final component of success is Research.  

As you learn more about the world you are now 
The colony is also where your living in, you will develop new facilities for your 
characters return between missions. Beyond colony, new weapons to carry into the field, and 
your crew, it is home to a wide range of even transcend the limitations of the Human 
support personnel not otherwise tracked in frame itself. 
the game, such as researchers, mechanics, 
armorers, and all the civilian personnel Research is a vital part of being successful on 
required to make a colony function. It’s still the new world and great care must be taken in 
your job to help them thrive, however! staying up to date on new developments. You 

can read more about Research on page 91.
The colony might be safe for your characters, 
but it is not safe from threat: Attacks and 
disasters can inflict damage, jeopardizing the Getting Started
integrity of the colony. To learn how to build Ready to begin? If so, generate your first 
your colony and conduct research towards Colony Crew (page 14), and once you have 
bigger and better resources, visit the Colonies familiarized yourself with the Combat Rules, 
section, page 81. head for the Initial Mission (page 44).

11



Introduction

The Find
“Are you reading this?” “I don’t think it’s recent...” – he let the AI handle 
“Affirm. Signal is clear...”. Breaking form, the camera – “...there’s things growing up the 
Operator added, “...though we have no idea sides. It must have been here quite some time.”
what it is we’re seeing.” Silence. The base team were conferring. 
A step closer, the scout panned the helm-cam Eventually, Operator came back, “Science says 
again. negative to crash site, they think it’s a building.”

“I don’t know either. It looks like some sort of “Yeah, could be,” the scout mused. Data 
ancient construction. Ship interior, maybe?” summaries scrolling by on his helmet 

display. “AI says it may be built into the rock 
The rangefinder beeped, the read-out indicating surface itself”.
that, whatever it was, it was at least a mile long. 
The scout knelt and tapped his wrist-console, Operators voice crackled once more. “They’re 
prompting the suit AI to begin processing. also saying origin unknown. Command is 

classifying this location as T-7. You know the drill 
The comms crackled again. from here on out.”
“Point your camera at the ground. Science team He grimaced while the camera finished up its 
wants to see if it’s a crash.” work. It was only then that he saw it: A strange 
The scout held his hand in front of the camera glow, faint at first, emanating from a structure 
and gave a thumbs up, then secured himself to below his position. For a moment, his mind 
a nearby rock formation. Giving the rope a solid remained locked on the procedural implications 
tug, he slowly leaned forward over the cliffside – investigation, description, categorization – 
to get the optimal view. 350 meters below, the before, finally, he acknowledged a growing 
ground was covered in the same violet grass- disquiet, not just there within him, but 
like growth they’d seen near the landing site. emanating like some ancient susurrus of 

presence from the site itself.

5th Survey Group. Notation to K256 Files. What is stranger is that many of the remains 
Researcher E. Davison, Senior Analyst. do not appear to serve obvious purposes. 
“Who lived here and what became of them Initial surveys showed machinery may have 
is unknown and while galactic remnants are been removed, though our suspicion is that 
common across the galaxy, the nature and systems are built into the structures themselves. 
type of construction in the Reach appears More research on site will be required. 
only here. Many of the structures appear to 
be dug deep into the world itself or perhaps While the remains on the surface are 
raised from it. While the decay of time has mainly of interest to archeologists and 
weathered away most of what must have xenoanthropologists, there are many sites that 
been major facilities, these worlds surely contain interesting remnants and artifacts. What 
featured prominently in some grand scheme is more worrying is that these hidden sites 
of colonization or habitation. are also defended by automated sentinels left 

behind to prevent those artifacts from falling 
into the wrong hands or perhaps any hands 
at all. An enhanced Unity security presence is 
recommended for all colonial expeditions.”

12



CREWS & 
COMBAT

	 YOUR COLONY CREW 14 	 COMBAT RULES 28
	 The Character Roster 14 	 The Battle Round Sequence 28
	 Initial Character Profiles 18 	 Carrying Out Tasks 31
	 Character Backgrounds 21 	 AI Enemy Variations 32
	 The Administrator 25 	 Movement 34
	 Imported Characters 26 	 Shooting 35

	 Resolving a Hit 37
	 	 Brawling 39

	 Panic 40
	 Aid 40
	 Contacts 41
	 “The Slyn” 43
	 PLANETFALL 44
	 “The Promise” 46

13



Your Colony Crew

Your Colony 
Crew

The Character Roster
Welcome to your new home, Colony background during each episode, but the 
Administrator! Let’s find out who came along story is ultimately about a small handful of 
with you to build this new project. In this recognizable people. 
section of the book, you will create the roster of 
characters you’ll use to play the game. Classes
Your colony crew has an initial roster of eight 
characters, expandable to ten over the course There are three classes available to you: 
of a campaign (the maximum number of The scout, the scientist, and the trooper. 
characters available to you). When you take on ◆	 Scientists are the brains of the operation, 
missions in the tactical game, you will usually helping evaluate the strange and the alien, 
use a subset of this roster. Note that due to as well as improving the coordination of 
injuries and deaths, you may well go into your team in the field.
missions short-handed! 

◆	 Troopers bring the brawn, being trained 
The roster does not represent every character in heavy weapons and armor. They are 
of that type. Your colony is assumed to professional soldiers with tactical flexibility.
have several security personnel, colonists, 
scientists, engineers, and others, in addition ◆	 Scouts help with the exploration of the 
to those on your roster. Instead, your roster world and have superior battlefield mobility.
represents the most important slice of Your roster may contain any combination of 
your colony. Think of them as the focal these three classes, but you must include at 
characters in a television show. You might least one of each. If you are uncertain what’s 
see any number of other individuals in the best for your initial roster, we recommend  

2 scouts, 2 scientists, and 4 troopers. 

Character-driven Stories Note that if you are importing a character 
from another game, they count against your 

Several events will refer to characters on your roster limit. For example, if you were to bring 
roster. This always refers to the characters that two characters from a Five Parsecs from Home 
can gain experience and progress. Incidental campaign, you would have six remaining 
civilians that are along for a mission – bots and character slots. 
the military grunts that make up your fireteams 
– are NOT part of your character roster and can 
never be selected as the target of an event that 
affects characters on your roster.

14



Your Colony Crew

Scientists Troopers
This class encompasses researchers, biologists, The brawn of the mission, troopers are veteran 
technicians, and more. While each has a soldiers capable of dealing with an array of 
specialty they were trained in, they carry AI- battlefield challenges. They not only benefit 
assisted modules, giving them a wide range from enhanced combat abilities, but are capable 
of addition AI expertise and instantly available of using a wide range of military weaponry.
situational analytics. Troopers can use Civilian and Trooper weapons 
Scientists can only use Civilian and Scientist and equipment. 
weapons. 

◆	 Trooper Armor: All troopers wear protective 
◆	 Scientific Mind: When making a Savvy test, armor plating, giving them a 5+ Armor 

scientists may roll the die twice and pick the Saving Throw.
best score.

◆	 Intense Combat Training: A trooper 
◆	 Problem Solving: When making a Reaction activated in the Quick Action Phase (see 

roll, you may roll one additional die for page 28) may move and attack as normal 
each scientist on the table. After assigning or may choose to take two actions (such as 
initiative dice to your characters, any excess firing twice). If they do, one action happens 
dice are dropped. in the Quick Action Phase and the second in 

the Slow Action Phase. 

15



Your Colony Crew

Scouts Grunts
This class represents the specially trained scouts You also start with 12 common soldiers known 
that every colonial expedition employs. Scouts as grunts. Should this number drop below 
can move quickly through a variety of terrain 12, more can be trained, though they are not 
and excel in flexibility on and off the battlefield. an infinite resource. These common soldiers 
Scouts can use Civilian and Scout weapons and do not need to be listed separately on your 
equipment. roster, merely tracked on your Colony Tracking 

Sheet, though you may like to name them in 
◆	 Flexible Combat Training: Unlike other the 'Notes’ box as you play the campaign – it is 

characters, when a scout activates, they  more interesting to know that Private Estrada is 
may choose to take their action before or the one that took on an alien beast alone.  
after moving. You will be accompanied into combat missions 

◆	 Jump Jets: Scouts wear jump modules, by fireteams of such soldiers. These are not 
allowing short, powered jumps. When as experienced or battle-hardened as your 
moving, a scout can choose to jump instead troopers, but they are proficient and capable 
of walking. The distance traversed is equal to military personnel.
the normal movement speed. Unlike your main characters, grunts do not gain 
The jump must be in a straight line but experience or progress. Grunts always have the 
can clear obstacles up to double human same profile and are not tracked individually. 
height and can be used to jump on and off In the campaign game, they use a simplified 
things. Scouts can descend from any height casualty table to determine their fates. Grunts 
without taking damage, but a drop beyond use their own weaponry (usable only by them) 
their movement speed uses up the entire and cannot be outfitted with other weapons.
activation. Each mission type will state if it allows the use 

of grunts and, if so, how many you can bring.

16



Your Colony Crew

Civvies
Civvies do not appear on your roster but may 
show up during missions. If you are short on 
people, you may also opt to bring along civvies 
to fill any missing positions. 
Civvies have the basic profile on page 18 and 
have no special abilities. They can only use 
Civilian weapons.
They do not progress in campaign experience, 
and the same civvy will not typically participate 
in multiple missions (though for narrative 
purposes you might decide that, for example, 
the newly recruited trooper was actually a 
civvy from a prior mission who has now 
undergone basic training).

The Colony Bot
Bots are cybernetic assistants commonly 
assigned to dangerous missions. They can Bots receive the following abilities:
stand in for a wide range of crew roles in the ◆	 Made of Metal: Bots receive a 6+ Armor 
field and are easily repaired if damaged during Saving Throw when hit by attacks.
a mission. You have a single bot available. It 
can be named (and Unity soldiers often do give ◆	 Mindless and Strong: When playing 
their bot compatriots a name) or you can give special scenarios, bots are never affected 
it a designation of letters and numbers to suit by psionic influences that are not strictly 
their artificial nature. physical in nature (so a bot cannot be 

mind-controlled but could be knocked over 
The Incremental Productions Synth-Person by a blow of psionic force). They are never 
(nicknamed Eypees by Unity troopers, and penalized or slowed down for carrying or 
more commonly colony bots) were developed hauling heavy items. 
to be a multi-purpose bot suitable for 
colonization and exploration efforts. ◆	 Replaceable: Bots do not roll for post-

battle injuries. If a bot becomes a casualty 
As research shows colonists tend to prefer during the game, it is broken. Your 
the bots being individually distinguishable, a facilities can repair or replace one bot every 
number of personality modules are available. campaign turn.
The basic chassis is humanoid in form. 
You begin the campaign with the Eypee colony 
bot. You may opt to bring the bot along with Bot Models
you on a mission in place of another character, Players of Five Parsecs from Home will note that 
but the bot cannot gain experience or receive bots have both a different starting profile and 
any upgrades. This makes it valuable early in a different ways in which they are handled during 
campaign, but it will eventually be outclassed a Planetfall campaign. This reflects the types of 
by your other characters. bots assigned to exploration and colonization 
In combat, the bot can use Civilian weapons. fleets, which are optimized for durability rather 

than combat potential.

17



Your Colony Crew

Initial Character Profiles
Each character begins with a starting profile Reactions
as shown in the table below. Copy this data to A measure of initiative, observation, and 
the roster on your Colony Tracking Sheet alertness. A character with high Reactions has 
(see page 190). more flexibility in the combat round sequence. 
Choose eight profiles from among scientists, Reactions range from 1 to 5, with a typical 
scouts, and troopers. You will also have civilian having 1.
12 grunts and one bot. When choosing your Speed
scientists, scouts, and troopers, you can choose 
Human sub-species and other non-Human The ability of the character to cover ground in 
profiles – see page 19. a tactical situation. This is always listed as a 

number of tabletop inches. A typical civilian 
has a Speed of 4”. 

Ability Scores
Combat Skill

Each character has a profile with 
ability scores that provide their basic A measure of weapons training, 
combat characteristics. Players of fighting ability, and killer instinct. 
other Five Parsecs games will This is listed as a bonus to  
recognize that the abilities are combat dice rolls. A typical 
directly compatible. civilian has +0.

Toughness
Imported Characters and Difficulty How rugged and tough the 
A character brought over from another Five character is and how well they 
Parsecs from Home campaign arrives with can keep fighting despite 
considerable advantages in terms of XP minor injuries. This ranges 
gained and items acquired. This will make from 3 to 6, with a 
the initial game a little easier. They bring typical civilian 
the abilities they had in that campaign  having 3.
(as far as those abilities apply to the Savvy
Planetfall rules). Crew are assumed to be 
advisors, mercenaries, or Unity-affiliated Wits, logical reasoning, and some 
agents with particular talents that are technical aptitude. This is used for 
going to be beneficial to the mission. problem solving and to get out of 

certain sticky situations. It is listed 
See “Imported Characters” (page 26) as a bonus to a dice roll with a typical 
for more info. person having a +0.

ABILITY SCORE SCIENTIST SCOUT TROOPER GRUNT CIVVY BOT

Reactions 1 1 2 2 1 2
Speed 4” 5” 4” 4” 4” 4”

Combat Skill +0 +0 +1 +0 +0 +0
Toughness 3 3 3 3 3 4

Savvy +1 +0 +0 +0 +0 +0

18



Your Colony Crew

Human Sub-Species ◆	 Impetuous: When making a Reaction Roll, 
There are 57 registered sub-species of if you roll a single 1, it must be assigned 
Humanity according to Unity Survey data. Of to a Feral character, if possible. If you roll 
these, three are considered of particular value multiple 1s, you are not required to do so.
to colonists: Feral, Hulkers, and Stalkers. You Hulker
may opt to include a maximum of one Feral 
plus one sub-species of choice (Hulker, Stalker, Gene-modded to have massive strength, the 
or a second Feral). Hulker is an intimidating individual, towering 

over the average Human.
Select any character on your roster and add the 
following modifications and abilities. Hulkers begin with Toughness 5.

They receive the following characteristics:
Feral

◆	
Genetic uplifts based on various Earth Poor Aim: Hulkers have poor eyesight. They 
carnivores, Feral most commonly resemble always count as having Combat Skill +0 
humanoids with fur and wolf-like facial features when shooting and can receive no weapon 
and tails. While originally developed for military hit bonuses.
purposes, they can be found throughout ◆	 Great Strength: Hulkers do not suffer a 
Human space. penalty when using heavy weapons. In 
Feral have no adjustments to their profile, but brawling combat, they can strike using their 
receive the following two characteristics: fists (Melee weapon, +1 Damage).

◆	 Keen Senses: All visibility limitations and 
detection ranges are increased by +1” 
for a Feral. For example, if something was 
normally spotted at 6” range, a Feral would 
spot it at 7” range instead.

19



Your Colony Crew

Stalker
A rare gene-mod, the Stalker physically 
resembles an ordinary Human except for the 
blue coloration of their skin.
Stalkers have no adjustments to their profile, 
but receive the following characteristic:
◆	 Shift!: Instead of moving normally, the 

Stalker may conduct a short-range teleport. 
Roll 1D6 and position the figure anywhere 
within this distance in inches. This is not 
regular movement, and the figure can shift 
through terrain and other figures. They may 
still take a normal action. 

Alien Characters Soulless emissary
If you own the Five Parsecs from Home core Some colonies have created highly unusual 
rules or Compendium, you may also select alien partnerships with Soulless who, for 
characters from those books. These are assumed diplomatic reasons, decided to support the 
to be specially assigned to the mission and have colony as robotic support and or security. It is 
been granted Unity citizenship. not uncommon for Souless representatives 

to travel with starship crews, so this does 
represent an intriguing dilemma for a 
colony. Do they refuse the help and possibly 
create tension with a nearby Soulless 
expedition, or accept the help and risk the 
Soulless having access to the colonies' data 
and risk a security breach?
You may include a single Soulless emissary, 
taking up a roster slot.
◆	 Soulless can only occupy the Trooper 

class due to security restrictions. 
◆	 The Soulless character receives a 6+ 

Saving Throw due to their metal 
construction and begins the campaign 
with Toughness 4 and a +1 Savvy score.

◆	 Soulless cannot receive any 
Augmentations. 

◆	 Due to the need for repairs, they use the 
normal injury table after missions. They 
cannot benefit from any accelerated 
healing and recovery.

20



Your Colony Crew

Character Backgrounds
Your roster of eight initial characters includes Prior Experience
