these things. cover. Somewhere out there was its partner, 
Theodora nodded and they jogged to the keeping it alive.
entry hatch, which opened as it detected their As the fog cleared for a moment, she couldn’t 
approach. The blue light of the afternoon sun help but gasp. The high-caliber ammunition 
gave the scene an oddly serene feel, in spite had torn one of its arms clean off and blood  
of the chaos unfolding at the perimeter was spraying from the creature’s ruptured 
guard post. throat. Though they looked like reptiles, they 
She could see two of the security troopers were humanoid enough that it was not difficult 
down there, frantically aiming and firing into to envision the same wounds on one of her  
the fog at hunched shapes. One shape stood  own troopers.
up and a moment later a searing bolt of light There was no sign of the partner even though 
arced towards the guard post, shattering part of she knew it must be somewhere nearby. She 
the barricade. mouthed the word “auto” and the helmet AI 
“Slyn!”, Theodora shouted to nobody in adjusted her rifle. The hail of fire struck the 
particular. The lizards had attacked them twelve shattered Slyn and tore it to pieces. As the gore 
times in the last two months and they didn’t smeared the ground, she thought she saw 
seem tired of it yet. Jacques fell to one knee another shape fall. That’s how they worked:  
and started firing into the fog too, the tracer fire They were linked in pairs and as long as one 
barely perceptible through the roiling mist. survived, the other could keep going despite 

grievous wounds. Up to a point, at least.
Theodora trusted that Jacques could keep them 
pinned down and began moving towards the As she ducked back to reload, she gave a bitter 
guard post. As she ran, two bolts of light flashed smile. You had to admire their loyalty to each 
past her. They were soundless unless very close, other. She might even do so later when they 
in which case there came a sort of high-pitched weren’t busy trying to kill her. 
whine or momentary static noise through the 
headsets, giving battle communications a 
strange, choppy ambience.

108



MIssions & 
Battles

	 MISSIONS 110 	 BATTLEFIELD SETUP 138
	 Battlefield Conditions 110 	Preparing a Wargames Table 138
	 Mission Briefings 114 	 Random Table Setup 143
	 Post-Mission Finds 134 	 Enemy Generation 146
	 Alien Artifacts 135
	 Uncertain Terrain Features 137

109



Missions

Missions

Battlefield Conditions
Every planet selected for exploration has its If the roll on the Campaign Condition table 
own unique environments and phenomena indicates an entry that has been filled out, you 
that the field teams must contend with. We receive the same Condition again, including 
refer to these as Campaign Conditions (or any secondary rolls. 
simply Conditions). Although you generate 
Conditions as part of mission briefings, you Unless stated otherwise, battlefield conditions 
should track these local peculiarities as part of apply to the enemy as well as your own troops.
the ongoing campaign game.

Campaign Condition table
When you begin the campaign, you will have 
a Campaign Condition table with 10 blank D100 NO. CONDITION

entries on it. Every time a mission instructs 01-15 1 
you to determine a Condition, roll D100 and 16-30 2 
consult the table. 

31-42 3 
If the roll indicated a blank entry, roll on the 
Master Condition table below, and follow the 43-52 4 
instructions (some entries require additional 53-62 5 
rolls). Write the Condition you have generated 
into the spot on the Campaign Condition table 63-72 6 
exactly as you rolled it. Going forward, that 73-82 7 
result will always be what is written on your 83-90 8 
Campaign Condition table. 

91-95 9 
96-00 10 

Note on Variety
The same Conditions can be added to your 
Campaign Conditions table more than once. You 
can either accept this as a common occurrence 
on your particular world or you can treat the 
second roll as No Condition. 

110



Missions

Master Condition table

D100 RESULT DESCRIPTION

01-08 Visibility limits Your vision is limited due to impenetrable darkness, fog, psionic 
interference, or visual distortions. This seems to defeat all conventional 
technological solutions. 
The visibility limit is the maximum range at which you can fire on 
targets or carry out any other tasks that requires visibility. Research can 
improve this limit. 
Roll D100 again:
01-30	 V ariable by round: Roll 1D6+8 at the beginning of the  

game and again at the end of each battle round to determine 
the limit in inches next round.

31-70	 Fixed: The limit is 1D6+8”. Roll once to determine what it  
will be in every instance this condition applies.

71-00	 V ariable by battle: When setting up a battle, roll 1D6+8 
to determine the visibility limit for this battle.

09-13 Shooting penalties Your ability to track and shoot targets is affected by a natural 
phenomenon such as psionic disturbances, malfunction due to 
background “haywire signals”, clouds of gas, or similar. 
A -1 penalty applies to all ranged attacks in certain circumstances.  
Roll D100 to determine those circumstances:
01-35	 R andom by round: Each battle round roll 1D6; on 5-6,  

the penalty applies that round.
36-65	 Range: All attacks over 15” range are penalized.
66-00	 C ertain terrain types: When setting up, randomly pick a 

terrain feature. All features of the same broad type (plants, 
rocks, water, etc.) apply the penalty to any shot that originates 
from, targets inside, or passes through the feature.

14-19 Movement penalty Due to gravity distortion, slippery surfaces, crumbling ground material, 
or grasping plants, you are unable to Dash under certain circumstances. 
Roll D100:
01-25	 T able surface: Anywhere on the table surface that is not a 

terrain feature. Figures in or on terrain features are not affected.
26-60	 Terrain features: Anywhere that is in or on a terrain feature.
61-80	 Climbing: While climbing up or down things.
81-00	 Crossing obstacles: When crossing any kind of obstacle.

111



Missions

D100 RESULT DESCRIPTION

