many Research Points you have invested f 2 ✓3
2   Remote

RP Investment o ities
towards acquiring a given Theory, and which ✓3 ut facil

   Sco
 demarcation  

ted post-organic
Applications you have bought with further  3  Integra

Research Points. (Application costs are shown  nter
rming control ce

3  Terrafo
t

within the checkboxes.)  tation  GR
Environmental Adap  Bolstered survival ki

3
1 3  ation  

 RP Investment of  GR Immune system bio-deline
3   

  enter
104  4  Advanced medical c

ld installation
Genetic Advancement    protective shie

4  Adapted
RP Investment of 4  search site

al adaptation re
4 Biologic

 ation  
 n facility

High-Level Adapt
4  Genetic adaptatio

 RP Investment 4
 of  

 personality integration

 4  Psionic

Psionic Engineering  nts:
 f 4 Augmentation Poi

RP Investment o
be bought using 

nhanced mobility
gmentations may 

Claws   E
The following Au

Boosted recovery   onic cohesion

ision making   ental links   Psi

 Boosted dec
Inherent protection   M

onal use only.

d vision   is page for pers
 to replicate th

 Enhance
Permission is granted

106



Colonies

Genetic Augmentation
As you explore and research this new world, Claws
you can adapt to it using genetic modification. Retractable claws are convenient for labor tasks 
Unity scientists have long perfected “online as well as enhancing defensive capabilities.
gene modding” – allowing the physical frame 
to be modified and rewritten to add new All characters count as having a Damage +0 
features to a person’s physical form. Melee weapon which cannot be lost in any way.

While primary uses have been medicinal and Enhanced Mobility
fashion-oriented, this ability an be taken to new Adaptation of animal DNA to improve short-
heights when fighting on an alien world. term running speed.
Several Research applications and buildings Characters moving in a straight line may 
grant you Augmentation Points. You can increase their base move by 1”. Character Dash 
used these to purchase Augmentations from moves are now 3” instead of the customary 2”.
the options below at any point when you have 
accumulated the required points. However,  Enhanced Vision
you can buy only one per campaign turn. In addition to improving conventional vision, 
The cost is always equal to the number of genetic enhancement improves latent psionic 
Augmentations you already have, including senses, adapting them to local conditions.
the current selection. For example, the first All visibility limits are increased by +3”.
Augmentation in the campaign costs  
1 Augmentation Point, the second costs  Inherent Protection
2 Augmentation Points, and so forth. Adaptive skin that can harden in response to 
Once selected, an Augmentation applies to minor injuries, halt bleeding and otherwise 
every current and future character you have, prolong combat endurance.
starting from the following campaign turn. All characters receive a 6+ Saving Throw 
Bots are unaffected (and if importing characters against incoming damage. The normal rules 
from other campaigns, neither are Soulless). for combined Saving Throws apply. 
Note: You typically will not achieve every Mental Links
Augmentation in a single campaign. Connecting individuals together in a manner 
Boosted Decision Making that allows rapid, consensus-based decision 
Psionic engineering improves preternatural making. A first step towards a new future?
senses. This counts as a Milestone for campaign 
Each battle round, you may pick up and reroll completion purposes.
one of your Initiative dice. Selecting this also adds 1 Story Point. 

Boosted Recovery Psionic Cohesion
Implantation of carefully selected plant DNA Finding ways to improve psionic connections 
accelerates recovery from injury and illness. despite the natural dampening effect can 
When a character is sent to Sick Bay, reduce the greatly increase cohesion and morale. 
initial recovery time by 1 turn. This has no effect Any character that would lose a level of Loyalty 
on Grunt characters. rolls 1D6. On 5-6, they do not lose a level.

105



Colonies

Tech Tree
This diagram illustrates the routes to progress Theory CB
your colony technologies. It excludes Research-   Colony Bot Upgrade

derived bonuses to in-game currencies such as Secondary Theory TR
  Trooper Upgrade

Colony Morale or Augmentation Points, which Milestone GR
  Grunt Upgrade

are included together with costs and further  
details in the Research, Buildings, Genetic Building  New Weapon  
Augmentation, or Armory chapters.
		  3   High-tech manufacturing plant C

  +
B

    1 KP
Advanced Manufacturing 		  3   Damage containment center

RP Investment  of 3
		  3   Orbital facility

		  4   AI-assisted school   +   CB Combat Skill +1
AI Theories 		  4   Bot maintenance bay

RP Investment  of 4
		  4   Cybernetics facility CB

  +    Speed 6"

		  3   Hardened life support system

		  3   Locally adapted food production site    +
GR

    Adapted armor
Environmental Research 		  3   Remote extraction site

RP Investment  of 2
		  3   Remote research station

		  3   Scout facilities

		  3   Integrated post-organic demarcation 	
	 Environmental Adaptation 	 3   Terraforming control center

RP Investment  of 3
		  3   GR Bolstered survival kit

		  3   GR Immune system bio-delineation 	
Genetic Advancement 		  4   Advanced medical center

RP Investment  of 4
		  4   Adapted protective shield installation

	 High-Level Adaptation 	 4   Biological adaptation research site
RP Investment  of 4

		  4   Genetic adaptation facility

	 Psionic Engineering 	 4   Psionic personality integration
RP Investment  of 4

The following Augmentations may be bought using Augmentation Points:
  Boosted decision making     Boosted recovery     Claws     Enhanced mobility

  Enhanced vision     Inherent protection     Mental links     Psionic cohesion

106 Permission is granted to replicate this page for personal use only.



Colonies

  		  2   Carver blade GR
  +    Sergeant weaponry

		  2   Kill-break shotgun
Infantry Equipment 		  2   Ripper pistol
RP Investment  of 2

		  2   Shard pistol   +
GR

    Side arms

		  2   Steady rifle CB
  +    Trooper weapons

		  2   Bio-gun  
		  2   Dart pistol  
	 Adapted Combat Gear 	 2   Hyper-rifle

RP Investment  of 2
		  2   Mind-link pistol  
		  2   Phase rifle

		  3   Early warning system   +
GR

    Sharpshooter sight
Military Doctrine 		  3   Med-evac shuttle facility

RP Investment  of 3
		  3   Military barracks GR

  +   Ammo packs TR 
  +  Handguns

		  3   Rapid response network

		  3   Recreational facility
Social Theories 		  3   Satellite launch facility

RP Investment  of 3
		  3   Frontier world doctrines

		  3   Environmental control facility
Theoretical Physics 		  3   Research laboratory C

  +
B

    5+ Saving Throw
RP Investment  of 4

		  3   School of theoretical sciences  
		  3   Galactic comms relay

		  3   Scientific training facility  
	 Non-Linear Physics 	 3   Colony shield network  

RP Investment  of 4
		  3   Academy   +

CB
    Reactions 3

The following buildings have no prerequisites:
  Advanced manufacturing plant     Civilian market

  Drone turret network     Expanded living facility     Heavy construction site

  Military training facility     Militia training camp     Patrol base

  Protective shelter     Resource processing     Scout drone network  
Permission is granted to replicate this page for personal use only. 107



Colonies

Close Encounters
“We have a lot of contacts out here!” As she slid into cover besides the troopers, 
The voice in the headset was calm on the Theodora levelled her rifle at a shape in the fog 
surface, but Theodora knew the tone. They and squeezed the trigger. The gun’s computer 
wouldn’t have called it in if they didn’t think it micro-calibrated the aim and followed up 
was a serious problem. the shot with two more rounds. The shape 

staggered as the projectiles hit home, but the 
“Hold your position. Me and Jacques will be Slyn remained standing. They always did for  
there in a moment!” the first strike. 
She picked up her rifle. Jacques looked over, Theodora spat on the ground and tried to follow 
his own rifle in hand. He always had a sense for the wounded creature as it staggered towards 
these things. cover. Somewhere out there was its partner, 
