
20-25 Uncertain terrain Long range scans are particularly unreliable here.
features If you use the Uncertain Terrain Features optional rule (see page 137), 

add 1 additional Uncertain feature. If you do not use this rule, this 
result is instead treated as “Unstable Terrain,” below.

26-30 Unstable terrain Many seemingly solid features seem extremely unstable, and the 
slightest noise could collapse them.
When setting up, randomly select a terrain feature. All features of 
the same general type (rock, plant, etc.) are unstable. Each time a  
figure moves adjacent to or on the feature, or is fired upon while on  
the feature, roll 1D6. On a 1, the feature collapses and is removed 
from the table. Any figures that were in or on the feature will be 
knocked Sprawling.

31-35 Shifting terrain At the end of each battle round, randomly select a terrain feature and 
then move it 1D6” in a random direction. Features can move off the 
table, in which case they are simply gone. Figures in or on the feature 
move with it but must each roll 4+ on 1D6 or be knocked Sprawling 
(see page 38). 
Features will stop if they would otherwise collide with each other.

36-41 Hazardous Randomly select two terrain features which become Impassable.
environment

42-49 Resource rich If you win the mission, roll one additional time on the Post Mission 
Find table.
This roll CAN be a duplicate of a result you obtained from any rolls 
normally awarded by a mission.

50-55 Heavy scanner signals If the mission uses Contacts, place one additional Contact marker 
initially. This has no other effect.

56-61 Unusual activity levels The area is particularly hostile or relaxed. If using Contacts, 
roll D100 again.
01-55	 Modify the Aggression die by +1 when testing for Contacts.
56-00	 Modify the Aggression die by -1 when testing for Contacts.
This has no other effect.

62-68 Enemy activity The area is heavily patrolled, or the enemy is not here in great numbers.
This affects the enemy number encountered when fighting Tactical 
Enemies. Roll D100 again:
01-45	 Encounter sizes reduced by 1.
46-00	 Encounter sizes increased by 1.

112



Missions

D100 RESULT DESCRIPTION

69-75 Drifting clouds Great clouds of gas, vapor, or pollen drift through the area.
When setting up the battle, place three cloud markers 6” from the 
center of the table in random directions. Each produces a 2” radius 
cloud. These clouds cannot be fired through. Figures within a cloud  
can fire and be fired upon but it counts as cover. 
At the end of each round, roll 1D6” and a random direction. Every cloud 
drifts the same distance and direction.
When first generating this condition, roll D100 again:
01-70	 Safe: The clouds interfere with visibility, but are not dangerous.
71-85	 T oxic: Each battle, roll two D6 and pick the highest of the 

results to determine the toxin level. Any non-Lifeform figure 
that makes base contact with a toxic cloud at any point must 
roll 1D6 and on a roll equal to or above the toxin level, they 
become a Casualty / lose 1 KP.

86-00	 Corrosive: Anyone that activates within a cloud takes a hit  
with +0 to the damage roll.

76-82 Clear escape paths Once per battle round, you may select any one character that escapes 
the battle just as if they had moved off a battlefield edge.

83-90 Confined spaces Randomly select two points on the battlefield edge when you set up 
terrain. The table can only be entered or exited at these two points.

91-00 No Conditions All clear! No special conditions apply.

113



Missions

Mission Briefings

Mission Types Enemy figures should always set up as if they 
A mission, in game terms, means that you are ready for combat. This means they should 
will be playing out a tabletop battle with your be set up in or behind cover or behind terrain 
miniatures. Some missions are selected by features that conceal them, whenever possible. 
you while others are mandated by events If there are positions of cover within 3” of the 
in the game. If you end up with multiple intended deployment point, set them up in the 
mandated missions, randomly pick which one covered position instead.
you will be playing. If there is high ground available for the enemy 
When conducting a mission, you will assemble to deploy on, try to position about a third of the 
a team of characters from your roster, as enemy on raised positions. The same 3” rule 
explained in the “Lock and Load” step of the can be applied here. 
campaign turn sequence (see page 65). The If you are setting up the enemy after placing 
number of characters will depend on the your own figures, all enemies should be placed 
mission in question. so they are in cover or out of sight.
There is always one primary mission every When placing individual figures in a group, 
campaign turn. If none are mandated, you place them with figures about 1” apart. 
must select a mission to play. Specialists and leader figures should be about 

1” behind the regular grunts. 
Enemy Deployments Enemies arriving during the game are usually 
Each mission gives a general guide to how the placed at the center of a battlefield edge. They 
enemy is set up, but this is provided in broad will arrive at that location even if it otherwise 
terms since it has to fit on a near-infinite array lacks cover or puts them directly in sight of 
of gaming tables. your characters. If multiple characters arrive at 

the same time, deploy them in a line with 1” 
As the player you are responsible for the between figures and the midpoint of the line 
exact placements of each enemy figure. A being on the center of the battlefield edge.
few guidelines can be kept in mind when 
you are deploying to prevent the game from 
becoming unsatisfactory.  Terrain Placement

Each mission will indicate if any particular 
features must be placed on the table. You 
can consult page 138 for general guidelines 

Objectives and LoS on how to build a good wargames table and 
page 143 if you want to randomly roll up your 

The Mission descriptions below tabletop terrain.
include Objectives, an object or location usually 
represented on the table by an Objective 
marker. Note that Objective markers themselves 
do not “exist” within the game world: They do 
not affect Line of Sight or movement in any way, 
though any terrain feature they are placed within 
will have the normal effects on Line of Sight. 

114



Missions

Investigation Mission Player Forces
Long range scans show interesting sights in this You will deploy 4 characters from your roster. 
sector. Your team is being deployed to search Select a battlefield edge and roll 1D6. On 4+, 
the area, look for features of interest, and secure you may arrive from this edge, otherwise pick 
any valuable finds. You are going in quick with randomly from the remaining edges. 
a smaller team, trying to avoid detection by any 
potential hostiles. Your crew sets up within 1” of each other and 

