markers. If nobody eligible is on the table, there is no effect.

4-5 An additional enemy with basic weapons arrives at the center of the enemy 
Reinforcements battlefield edge. The arriving figure does not activate this phase.

6 Concentrated Affects a player character. Any enemy that can see this character will fire on them 
attack this phase and receive a +1 hit bonus.

32



Combat Rules

Tactical Enemies AI Actions table

D6 ACTION DESCRIPTION

The target will remain in place and defend their current position for the rest of the 
1 Hold position battle (unless selected as a target for another AI action). They will move to cover 

within one move, if currently in the open and cover is available.

2 The target does not act this phase unless they have opponents within 6”, 
Hesitate in which case they remain in place and fire.

3-4 Brief halt The target does not move this phase but may fire normally.

5 The target will move towards the nearest terrain feature that is closer to the players 
Advance battlefield edge, rushing if needed. 

6 The target will move towards the nearest ally and try to get within 2”. 
Group up If already within 2” of an ally, they will stick with them this activation.

Lifeform Ploys table

D6 PLOY DESCRIPTION

The target remains in place and takes no actions this phase. 
1 Call for more When they activate next, place an additional enemy within 1” of their position. 

This is interrupted if they are knocked Sprawling or killed before then.
2 Hide Remove the target from the table and place a Contact in the nearest terrain feature.

3 The target removes all Stun and Sprawling markers. It will move at full speed 
Frenzy towards the nearest opponent and may engage in brawling combat.

The target does not activate this phase. Until it has activated again,  
a -1 hit penalty applies to shots against it. When it activates again, roll for a 

4 Lurk lifeform ploy (see page 22) and apply the result to the lurking figure (which can 
result in two ploys happening in the same phase, but not to the same figure). 

If the lurker is knocked Sprawling or killed, the ploy does not occur.

5-6 Flanking An additional Contact is placed at the center of a random battlefield edge. 
attack The new arrival does not activate this phase.

Lifeform AI Actions table

D6 ACTION DESCRIPTION

The target randomly picks a visible opponent (closest enemy if none are visible). 
1 Focus It will continue moving towards and trying to kill that target for the rest of the 

battle. This is interrupted if the same figure is the target of another AI action.

2 The target takes no actions this round but recovers normally if 
Hesitate

Stunned or Sprawling.

3-4 This activation, the target will move to the closest terrain feature that provides 
Move to cover cover. If already in cover, it must remain there this activation.

5-6 This activation, the target moves towards the nearest neutral battlefield edge, 
Move to flank trying to remain out of sight or in cover.

33



Combat Rules

Movement
When a character moves, they may move up to need one grunt to go check out something or 
their Speed score in tabletop inches. Figures to spread out to engage the enemy effectively.
can turn as often as they like. 
Characters cannot move through each other Brawling Combat
under any circumstances. A moving character that contacts an opponent 

will enter brawling combat (see page 39): This 
Obstacles can be crossed by treating the vertical must be resolved immediately. Brawling ends 
height as additional movement both up and the activation of the character. However, being 
down. For example, a 2” tall wall costs 4” to attacked in brawling combat does not prevent a 
climb up and back down to the other side. If a character activating later in the round.
wall or obstacle is wide enough for a figure to 
stand on, a figure can end the climb on top of it. 
The width of the obstacle must then be added to Enemy Movement
the distance moved when crossing. Lifeforms without ranged attacks will move 
The same system is used for climbing terrain towards the closest visible opponent to try to 
features provided they are obviously climbable. engage in brawling combat. If no opponents 

are visible to an enemy, randomly pick from the 
Ground that is challenging to move through three closest opponents. The Lifeform will move 
(e.g. mud, sand, or jungle) is designated towards the selected opponent.
Difficult ground: Every full 2” moved in such 
terrain consumes 1” additional movement Lifeforms with ranged attacks will only move if 
allowance. Characters with flying movement they are currently unable to attack. If so, they 
are not subject to this penalty. will move the shortest distance that will enable 

them to make an attack. Intelligent enemies 
Some terrain features cannot be entered. will try to move towards the nearest opponents.
These are called Block features and include 
large boulders and similar. They can Once within 12” they will halt to fire unless 
sometimes be climbed but typically act as their modifier (Combat Skill+Weapon Bonus) 
impediments to sight and movement that exceeds that of the nearest opponent, in which 
must be moved around. case they will continue to move to get close 

enough to engage in brawling combat. 
Fireteams are not required to remain in 
formation as they move, though if they move to Intelligent enemies always try to move through 
break formation, they will not receive the bonus cover if possible but will always prioritize being 
in the next battle round. For example, you may able to attack over their own protection.

Tactical enemy specialists will remain in place 
Jumping Down and Falling and fire if they can see any opponents in range. 

If no targets are visible, they will move towards 
A character can intentionally jump down. A the closest location that lets them establish a 
jump over 1” high ends the activation. Scouts line of fire against a target.
can jump down from any distance with no 
damage and can continue their activation if The enemy does not take Rush moves, always 
they jump down less than their Speed in inches. moving at the standard pace in their profiles. 

A character falling down 3” or more takes a The enemy typically ignores Objective markers 
Damage +0 Hit and is knocked Sprawling. unless the details for a particular mission type 

dictate otherwise. 

34



Combat Rules

Shooting
When taking a Shoot action, the character 
may perform a ranged attack. Characters with Questionable Shots – 
multiple weapons may fire only one of them the Weasel Rule
but you can pick which weapon each time the 
character activates. Sometimes it can be hard to determine if a 

figure is visible or if it is protected by cover.
Fireteam members are not all required to fire, Rather than spending a lot of time agonizing 
nor are they required to pick the same targets. about this, apply this rule:
Player characters may shoot at any enemy If you are uncertain, assume a figure can be 
visible to them and within range (see below). seen but is in cover.
However, enemies will always target the visible 
opponent they have the highest chance of This means a figure is out of sight when it is 
hitting. If multiple targets are equally easy to clearly not visible at all and is in the open when 
hit, they target the closest one. it is clearly not behind any terrain feature. Keep 

this in mind and you can adjudicate the majority 
Range and Shots of questionable cases easily.
Each weapon has a Range, measured in 
tabletop inches. Targets can only be fired at if 
they are within this range. Note that weapon Line of Sight Example:
ranges are compact, representing hip shots in a 
hasty skirmish environment, not the theoretical 
range of a futuristic weapon on a firing range or 
in the hands of a sharpshooter. A ✘
You can check distances at any time. There is no 
need to try to guess if you are within range. B3

B1 B2
Each weapon also has a Shot rating (often 
stated as ‘Shots’), which determines how many Example: In the diagram above, (A) has 
attacks are rolled, with each shot representing a Line of Sight to (B1) and (B2), but (B2) is 
volley of bullets or a short burst of fire. partially hidden behind a high wall and 
If a weapon has multiple shots, resolve each benefits from Cover. There is no LoS to (B3).
one at a time. If you kill a target before you 
have run out of shots, you may select a new 
target within 3” of the prior target. Line of Sight

To determine if two figures can shoot at each 
Visibility, Terrain, and Cover other at all, determine whether the shooter has 

Line of Sight (LoS). Imagine a straight line 
It is substantially more difficult to hit a target drawn between the figures: If it reaches the 
using cover than one nearby and in the open. target – any part of the target – they are in sight. 
In some cases, positioning a figure behind or If a terrain feature or another figure is in the 
within terrain prevents anyone targeting a way, there is no Line of Sight.
shot at all. There are two considerations related 
relating to whether you can target someone: In some situations, two figures may have Line 
Cover and Line of Sight. of Sight of each other but one enjoys Cover the 

other does not (see below).

35

