Slyn appear to have been good stewards of the 
worlds they inhabit, and resource depletions 
have not been witnessed.
While their remote position has generally 
allowed these migrations to occur peacefully, 
both Unity and the K’Erin have recently 
fought engagements with Slyn scouts to 
prevent incursions. Note these  
engagements have been classified 
Black Clearance. Currently the Slyn seem to 
be scouting near the Kensington Reach, their 
normal level of hostility greatly enhanced 
by some factor. The 2nd Fringe and 
27th Reserve Fleet Tactical 
Commands have been 
made aware of relevant 
information to help combat 
these incursions. 

43



Planetfall

PLANETFALL

The Initial Missions
Before the campaign begins proper, you need ◆	 Place 3 Beacon locations on any 
to establish the landing site. Do so by playing raised ground on the table. If you 
through the following three missions, one for have no raised ground, place these 
each of the specialties on your roster. You may locations in terrain features of your choice. 
play these missions in any order, though the 
recommended one is given below: ◆	 Randomly determine which battlefield edge 

you will set up near and deploy any scouts 
from your roster within 1”.

◆	 Beacons (Scout Mission)
◆	 Analysis (Scientist Mission) Objective

The scouts must move to each of the Beacon 
◆	 Perimeter (Trooper Mission) locations. When a scout ends an activation 
These missions will introduce you to the on the location, a Beacon has been deployed. 
various elements of the game systems and Once a Beacon is deployed on each location, 
combat mechanics. Once all three have been the mission is completed.
completed, proceed to Campaign Setup Obstacles
(see page 52). At the start of each Enemy Phase, a 
Each mission is played on a 2x2-foot table, with storm cluster spawns at the center 
terrain placed around the table in any manner of the table unless there are currently 
you see fit. 5 storm clusters on the table (use markers for 
Casualties during the initial missions do not the center of these). Each storm cluster moves 
require injury rolls. 1D6” in a random direction during the Enemy 

Phase. Any that leave the table are removed. 

Beacons (Scout Mission) A scout that is contacted by a storm cluster as it 
moves takes a +0 Damage hit. 

The first to land are the scouts, establishing the 
beacons required for the rest of the colonization Reward
fleet to begin deploying. The scouts must brave If you place all 3 Beacons successfully, the 
terrible storms to complete their mission. mission ends immediately and when you 
To play this mission you will need to learn how establish your colony, you receive 2 units of 
the Battle Round Sequence (page 28) and Raw Materials as a bonus.
Movement rules work (page 34). If the mission is a failure, you do not receive 

the bonus but may still proceed to the next 
mission, as a second wave of scouts succeeds.

44



Planetfall

Analysis (Scientist Mission) Perimeter (Trooper Mission)
The second landing is by the Science Team, The third landing is by the troopers of the 
establishing the parameters of the mission site team, establishing a defensive perimeter as 
and conducting detailed scientific scans. hostile Lifeforms are rapidly headed towards 
You will need to read the Contact rules to play your drop site.
this mission (see page 41). You will need to read all the rules for combat to 
◆	 Place 6 Contact markers fairly play this mission.

evenly around the table, then ◆	 Set up any troopers from your roster. Each is 
randomly select a battlefield edge. armed with the standard trooper rifle from 

◆	 Deploy your scientist characters within 1” the Armory (see page 77). You may set up 
of the selected battlefield edge. anywhere on the table you like.

◆	 After setting up, place 6 Lifeform miniatures 
Objective (you can use anything you like, but insects 
You must uncover at least 4 Contacts to and lizards will tend to look good) along 
complete the mission. Contacts that leave a randomly selected battlefield edge with 
the table count against you, unlike in regular their figures placed within 1” of it.
missions. Note that in this mission, revealing a 
Contact simply removes it. You do not have to Objective
roll on the Contact Reveal table. You must kill all 6 to complete the mission.

Reward Obstacles
If you successfully complete the mission, you The Lifeforms move 5” per action, have a +1 
will begin the campaign with 2 Research Combat Skill and Toughness 4. They will 
Points as a bonus (increased to 3 if you reveal move as directly as possible to attack you in 
all 6 Contacts). brawling combat and will strike with  
If the mission is a failure, you do not receive +0 Damage if they do.
the reward as your initial scans are not They are not subject to Panic tests.
sufficiently detailed, but you may progress 
to the next mission. Reward

Killing all 6 Lifeforms earns you +3 Colony 
Morale to begin the campaign (record this 

on your Colony Tracking Sheet). If you 
fail the mission, your troopers are 
evacuated, and a squad of grunts 
clears up the site. You may proceed to 
Campaign Setup in both cases  

(see page 52).

45



Planetfall

The Promise
Executive Briefing [Excerpt] to provide localized presence and protection 
Unity Survey Sector KS092345 of the most valuable assets. The 2nd Fringe 
“Along the far edges of Unity-controlled Fleet reports long range K’Erin conquest 
space lie several sectors known officially as and settlement attempts, with bloody but 
the Kensington Reach and unofficially as The ultimately decisive skirmishes across the 
Promise. This region is noted for having a sectors and Unity success in all cases. Most 
particularly high concentration of habitable galactic powers have been allowed to operate 
worlds, many of which already contain lifeforms, at least one research station or scientific facility 
though no sapient inhabitants. within The Promise to aid our efforts under the 
Initial planetary surveys conducted by the  Neptune 30 Treaty, but colonization is strictly 
5th Survey Group revealed rich mineral wealth limited to our Unity program. Despite this, 
and moderate climates suitable for habitation. continued land rights negotiations by Precursor 
Reports from early scout landings found signs  and K’Erin ultra-corporations have been 
of extensive prior terraforming, which appears presented, although the DiploCorp forecast 
to have been abandoned at various points that this will take at least 3 Core years to allow 
along the process thousands of years ago. fast-tracking time of colonization.  

Orbital scans indicate that the surfaces of Initial Colonization has been slow, with 
multiple worlds have a high density of ruins and permissions granted only after careful 
structures, some protruding from the ground consideration by the Colonial Settlement 
and others hovering over the surface through Bureau. Our recommendation is to fast-track all 
as-yet unidentified means. Recommendations Unity-approved organizations to maximize our 
are for colony expeditions to handle on-the- ownership of vital assets. It is recommended 
ground research to free up 5th Survey Group to that settlement within The Promise be shown 
continue scans of the Kensington Reach. to be a high-prestige project with the colonies 

intended to act as ideal showcases in order to 
Precursor psi-veyers from P1 Division have increase applications. This presents some risk 
noted that the worlds appear to be psionically given the known dangers of technologies and 
dampened by unseen means. Not only do lifeforms, but UnityComms are confident this 
the worlds not appear to long-range psionic can be managed in public media.
detection, but they are shrouded in a nullifying 
field which prevents many psionic abilities. Several special authorizations have been issued, 
Interestingly, some species and lifeforms can allowing colonies to be established in the 
function normally despite this dampening, marked sectors in your report which until now 
while it appears to inhibit most typical have been considered medium- and even high-
Precursor-derived psionic disciplines. (Note for risk. We have provided a list of capable crews 
Executive: this forms the basis for most psionics who have been identified in Schedule 37C. 
currently tracked in the galactic community.) Whilst they would normally not be considered 

for official Unity sanctioned programs, these 
Significant Unity fleet assets from the 2nd crews have been noted to be very successful in 
Fringe Fleet and 27th Reserve Fleet were the dangerous fringe. With the right support 
deployed to provide a Stage 2 Cordon for the and controls, we feel they will be suitable 
region interdicting major routes. Note that candidates for these risky missions and will also 
a Stage 4 interdiction would require at least act as deniable assets should these worlds prove 
70% of current Fleet Assets. It is recommended to be too dangerous.”
to advance the Magenta Colonization Plan 

46



CAMPAIGNS & 
COLONIES

	 THE CAMPAIGN 48 	 COLONIES 81
	 Beginning Your Campaign 48 	 A Colonial Briefing 81
	 Tactical Enemies 50 	Colony Integrity and Damage 87
	 Campaign Setup 52 	 Colony Morale 89
	 Other Colony Statistics	  55 	 Research 91
	 Story Points 56 	 Buildings 97
	 Campaign Turn Sequence 58 	 Genetic Augmentation 105
	 Character Roleplay Events 72 	 Tech Tree 106
	 The Armory 75 	 “Close Encounters” 108
	 “Enemies Among Us” 80
	

47



The Campaign

The 
Campaign

Beginning your Campaign
Once you have introduced yourself to the Campaign Overview
tactical game rules in the Planetfall missions 
(page 44), you are ready to start the main Campaigns are played as a series of campaign 
campaign game. turns (or simply “turns”). During each turn 

you will play one or more tabletop missions, 
You don’t have to prepare your next battlefield whether planned or unplanned. 
just yet, but if you don’t have them to hand 
already, make sure you have: Once you are situated, your colonists will 

start exploring the world, researching new 
◆	 pencils, erasers, dice (of course)... and a nice technology, and constructing your home 

mug of tea or other drink of choice base. Each campaign turn you will undertake 
field missions to exploit the resources of the 

◆	 copies of the Colony Tracking Sheet planet or to carry out other missions as they 
◆	 a notebook (analog or digital) for note taking suggest themselves. 

and various incidental record keeping; and The campaign is ultimately self-paced. You 
◆	 a method for creating a map, whether will reach Milestones through construction of 

drawing freehand or using a digital resource. particular buildings and by achieving important 
research, eventually leading to the campaign’s 
End Game. However, you may also continue 

Campaign Character Miniatures playing as long as you like, if you prefer to 
You may already have miniatures you would continue building your own story. 
like to use. If not, Miniatures are discussed in Milestones also function as a sort of game 
more detail in the Appendices, page 177. Some calendar. Each time you develop a new 
players prefer waiting until after they have Milestone, the campaign advances and events 
created their characters to decide on this. occur such as new foes appearing and new 

resources becoming available to you. This 
Milestone System is discussed in detail on 
page 156. 
To access the End Game, you must complete a 
total of 7 Milestones. 

48



The Campaign

Hostile Forces ◆	 The Slyn. These enigmatic, highly aggressive 
The manpower you have to draw upon is and hostile alien species are intent on 
limited, making it increasingly difficult to attacking your colony. Their motivations are 
replace losses as the campaign goes on. The difficult to discern, and your only hope is to 
core worlds will support you but will demand fend them off long enough for the colony to 
progress to grant additional support (in the achieve its destiny. 
form of Milestone achievements) so you 
must balance the desire to improve your If the campaign seems overwhelming, don’t 
colony with the desire (or need) to progress worry, completely messing up is difficult. Take 
in the campaign. a look at the options you have available to you 

at any given time and pick one that sounds 
As you play the game, you will encounter three interesting, fun, or which seems to pertain 
types of hostile forces: to whatever you are hoping to achieve at this 

particular moment. As you take campaign turns 
◆	 Animal Lifeforms that are native to the 

world. You will generate the exact types of and develop a feeling for the rhythm of the 
animals randomly, and will often have to game, you will start to form your own goals and 
contend with hostile lifeforms in the field. personal objectives.

◆	 Tactical Enemies. Ranging from raiders to 
saboteurs, these are forces trying to attack or Animal Lifeforms
destroy your colony. You will engage them in 
tactical battles. As the campaign progresses, In other 5X games, the term ‘lifeform’ has been 
you will gradually eliminate these threats. used in the wider sense, covering intelligences 

from animal up to spacefaring species. In the 
context of Planetfall, ‘Lifeforms’ – capital L – is  
used only as the context of animal lifeforms  
and non-civilized native species.

49



The Campaign

Tactical Enemies
Over the course of the campaign, hostile As the enemy is stronger than you, fighting 
forces will emerge on the world, whether from mile after mile is not viable. Instead, you will 
internal rebellion or external invaders, seeking have to track down and destroy their leadership 
to damage and pillage your colony. with a daring strike to win the day.
In total you will have to contend with three 
such groups of what we call Tactical Enemies. Enemy Occupied Sectors
They are distinguished from the various 
lifeforms you encounter by being sapient Initially, each enemy occupies a single sector of 
humanoids who (mostly) fight with weapons the campaign map, selected at random when 
similar to a military force. These groups are they arrive in the campaign (see page 52).  
detailed as part of the Enemy Generation Occupied sectors are areas that the enemy 
