


Combat Rules

A character is in Cover if there is terrain 
Cover Example 1: between them and the firer which would 
Figure (B) is at the edge of a forested Area obscure their position.
feature while figure (A) is in the open.  
Figure (B) receives Cover. Figure (A) does  Characters within forest, bush, and similar 
not receive Cover when fired upon by (B). vegetation (all Area features) can only see 

outside and can only be seen from the outside 
No Cover if they are at the edge of the terrain feature 

(and then only to the side on which they are 
A placed). Characters within the same vegetation 

feature can see each other if they are within 
3” of each other. Treat all characters within 

B vegetation as having Cover. 
 Has Cover

A Linear obstacle such as a wall does not count 
if the shooter is within 1” of it, as the shooter 

Cover Example 2: can fire over it with ease. (Assume walls are low 
Figure (C) is within 1" of a waist-high wall. enough to fire over unless suggested otherwise 
Figure (D) is 10" away from the wall. by a scenario or specific terrain piece.)
When (D) fires on (C), (C) will receive Cover High ground provides an advantage when 
as it crosses the obstacle. When (C) fires firing. A target on lower ground only receives 
on (D), (D) does not have Cover since the the benefits of Cover if they are within 1” of 
shooter is within 1” of the linear obstacle. the far side of a terrain feature between them 

and the shooter. For example, a shooter on a 
D hill could shoot at targets on the other side of a 

wall without counting them as being in Cover, 
unless they are within 1” of the wall. 

Within 1" = 
C receives Cover

Cover

36



Combat Rules

Scatter Terrain Rolling to Hit
Individual terrain pieces that are roughly For each shot on the weapon profile, roll 1D6 
the size of one figure, such as single trees, and add the Combat Skill of the shooter, along 
boulders, strange crystals, and so on, are with any modifiers that might apply. If the roll 
designated Scatter terrain. is equal to or above the target number in the 
Scatter terrain does not provide regular cover. table below, you have scored a hit; otherwise, 
Instead, if LoS crosses one or more pieces of the shot is a miss. Misses have no effect.
Scatter terrain, a die roll of exactly the score Please note that it is possible for a shot to have 
needed to hit the target indicates that the no chance of missing (or no chance of hitting)  
Scatter terrain has taken the hit: Move it from if the modifiers get sufficiently large. 
play; the shot has no other effect. Target is within 6” and in the open	 3+
If Scatter terrain is within the affected area 
of an Area or Stream weapon, roll 1D6 Target is in the open	 5+
per terrain piece with a 6 indicating it was Target has the benefit of Cover	 6+
destroyed. This will absorb the effect of the 
attack if a figure is on the other side. (Apply 
common sense here.)

RESOLVING A HIT
Armor Throw that is one step better than the single 
Some characters and creatures have armor lowest Saving Throw. For example, a character 
either due to natural protection such as scales with a 5+ save and two 6+ saves would receive 
or due to wearing body armor. This gives them a single combined 4+ Saving Throw.
additional protection from weapon strikes and Trooper Armor and Bots
animal claws. All characters of the trooper class wear armor, 
Characters with armor receive a Saving Throw giving them a 5+ Saving Throw.
listed as a dice target number such as 5+ or 
6+. Each time that character is hit for any As bots are made of metal, they receive a  
reason, roll 1D6: 6+ Saving Throw.

Other character types including scouts, 
◆	 A roll equal to or above the Saving Throw 

number negates the hit: The character does scientists, civvies, and grunts do not receive a 
not have to roll against their Toughness Saving Throw unless a rule or item grants one. 
value and is not Stunned.

◆	 A roll below the Saving Throw has no effect: Rolling for Damage
Either the attack broke through the armor or For each shot that hits, roll 1D6 for damage, 
struck an unprotected area. adding the weapon’s Damage rating to  

Some attacks may state that they ignore Saving the roll.
Throws outright. ◆	 If the roll is above the Toughness of the 
In the event a character has access to more target, they become a Casualty.
than one Saving Throw, do not roll separately: ◆	 If the roll is equal to the Toughness of the 
Instead, they receive a single combined Saving target, they are knocked Sprawling.

37



Combat Rules

◆	 If the roll is below the Toughness of the The Aid action can be used to allow an ally 
target, they are Stunned. within 3” to remove a Stun marker.

◆	 If a character takes multiple hits from a Stunned enemies will move to cover or out of 
single attack, roll damage for each: sight if they have no ranged attack or are not 
If the target has Kill Points (see below), they in range, otherwise they will always choose to 
lose 1 KP for each roll above Toughness. remain in place and fire on you. 

Otherwise, apply the single highest result. Sprawling
Casualties are removed from play. They are Sprawling figures can be marked with a 
either badly wounded, knocked unconscious, suitable counter or laid down on the table. 
or dead, and will play no further part in this If a character has been knocked Sprawling, 
engagement. they can perform no actions of any kind next 

activation except to regain their footing and 
Stunned bearings when they activate. After their next 
If a figure is Stunned, place a marker next activation, they are recovered.
to them. A character can receive a total of 3 
Stun markers at a time. Ignore any additional If a character moves into base contact and 
markers. When the character activates next, spends their action helping them up, the 
they can either move OR take an action/attack Sprawling character can take an action upon 
but cannot do both. (5PFH players should their own activation (but cannot Move).
note that characters are not knocked out upon A Sprawling character can be moved through 
receiving a third Stun marker.) (stepped over) by allies but not enemies. 
Events in the game such as being struck by You cannot end a move overlapping the 
attacks will result in a character being Stunned. Sprawling character.

A Stunned character is at a penalty if engaged While Sprawling, a character foregoes any 
in brawling combat. Saving Throw they would receive and their 

Toughness is considered 1 point lower.
When the character activates, they may Move 
OR perform a single action, but not both. Kill Points (KP)
Stunned Troopers cannot use their special Many creatures are too powerful to be brought 
ability to perform actions in both phases. down by a single burst of fire. Likewise, the 
Enemies may Move OR attack while Stunned. most experienced and battle-hardened heroes 

often have a knack for surviving unlikely 
After a figure completes its activation, a single events. We represent this using Kill Points 
Stun marker is removed from the figure. (KP). If a creature has KP listed in its profile, 

each damage roll that exceeds Toughness 
will remove 1 KP. Once all KP are gone, any 

Five Parsecs: Tactics Note additional hit that exceeds Toughness will 
The Tactics rulebook assigns all figures a KP result in a Casualty just as it does normally.
