The Tactics rulebook assigns all figures a KP result in a Casualty just as it does normally.
value. When converting creatures from Tactics to Note: Hits that remove KP do not cause a Stun. 
Planetfall, reduce KP by 1. Increase by 1 when 
converting the other way. We recommend tracking Kill Points with tokens 

or small dice placed with the appropriate 
If converting Planetfall creatures to Five Parsecs number showing next to the figure. Some 
from Home, use the KP rules as described here. players prefer tracking the current KP while 

others prefer to track damage sustained. 
38



Combat Rules

Brawling
When a moving character makes contact with Knock Back
an opponent, a Brawl immediately occurs Any character taking a hit in brawling combat 
between them. This uses up the moving but surviving is knocked back 1” for each 
character’s action. You CANNOT enter Brawling hit taken. This knock back is always directly 
combat unless you have an action available. away from their opponent and can result in 
Each character rolls 1D6 and adds their characters falling off things. 
Combat Skill. A character that is knocked back more than 1”  
◆	 All Lifeforms and any character armed with is also Knocked Sprawling (see page 38).

a Melee weapon may add a +2 weapon Exploitation Move
modifier. A character that eliminates their opponent in 

◆	 Characters without a Melee weapon, brawling combat may move 2” in any direction. 
but armed with a Pistol may add a +1 Humanoid characters cannot enter into a new 
weapon modifier. brawl using this move, but Lifeforms can and 

Compare the scores: The character with the will fight immediately if they do (though see 
highest modified score wins and scores a the Multiple opponents rule below).
single hit on their opponent. On a draw, both Bad Position
characters take a hit. This can result in one or 
both characters becoming casualties. If a character is Stunned when they become 

engaged in a brawl, remove all Stun markers. 
◆	 If the die roll of either character is a  The opponent receives a +1 bonus for each 

natural 6, they have succeeded in a feint marker that was removed. 
and inflict a bonus hit on their opponent. A Sprawling character counts as having a 

◆	 If the die roll of either character is a  Combat Skill of +0 and cannot claim any 
natural 1, they have fumbled, and their weapon bonuses on the roll. In effect, they 
opponent inflicts a bonus hit on them. only ever roll 1D6+0 when attempting to win. 

Bonus hits are in addition to any outcomes of If they survive, they immediately regain their 
the brawl itself. A character may end up being footing in addition to inflicting hits normally. 
hit multiple times because of this rule. Multiple Opponents
If a character is armed with a Pistol or Melee In some cases, a character may end up fighting 
weapon and claimed the brawling die roll multiple battles in the same phase. Each 
bonus for that weapon, they will inflict any hits subsequent opponent gets a cumulative 
with the Damage value of the selected weapon. +1 Combat Skill bonus to their roll.
A character lacking any suitable weapon 
strikes at +0 Damage (using the stock of their This bonus resets when the specific phase ends. 
weapon, a pocketknife, or a big rock). For example, a Lifeform fighting one of your 

characters in the Enemy Actions Phase and then 
See page 37 for how to resolve hits. fighting again in the Slow Actions Phase does 

not receive the bonus. 
Melee Weapons
Melee weapons are not part of the normal 
colonist equipment, though you may obtain 
them during the campaign. Imported 
characters may also carry some.

39



Combat Rules

Panic
The player’s exploration teams are exceptional Tactical enemies are subject to Panic tests 
individuals, not subject to morale tests during when they take casualties. The sight of their 
battle. They will fight or retreat as the player comrades pierced by lasers or riddled with 
wishes. Preserving your forces to fight another bullets tends to dampen their bloodlust, at 
day is a vital to successful campaign. least temporarily.
Player characters may abandon a battle by Unless the enemy is indicated as being 
moving into base contact with any battlefield Fearless, each time an enemy is removed 
edge. The character is removed from the battle as a casualty, make a D6 roll immediately 
and cannot return for the duration of it. afterwards. If the roll falls within the Panic 

range of the unit (usually 1, 1-2, or 1-3), one 
enemy figure within 8” of the casualty is 

Sec-Ops Lifeform Audit removed from play as they flee the battlefield. 
Kensington Reach – File 098 [Closed] If there are multiple eligible figures, remove 
“Lifeforms in the Kensington Reach exhibit many the one furthest away from the player’s 
strange features not found on typical colony- battlefield edge. 
approved worlds. Many are highly peculiar and 
relentlessly aggressive. We forecast that, over The Slyn are not subject to Panic tests, using 
time, many could be domesticated or relocated their own system to determine when they 
to enable the colony to progress safely but, in the abandon a battle. This is explained in the 
months after planetfall, wilderness expeditions encounter rules for the Slyn (see page 152). 
will be fraught with hazards. The new Type 4 labs Lifeforms and the robotic Sleepers do not take 
should allow on-site weapons R&D to help the Panic tests of any kind. 
colony adjust their weapons to cope with the 
local lifeform strengths and weaknesses. 
Many lifeforms surveyed show clear signs of Aid
genetic engineering. They may have been 
produced specifically to be aggressive or Characters taking the Aid action may grant an 
to enhance their abilities, though all have Aid marker to a comrade. These can be used in 
progressed to a stage where they function in a three ways:
stable population. ◆	 If a character is attacked, they may apply a -1 
Of particular concern, the presence of Humans penalty to a single enemy hit roll.
appears to both enrage and entice many of the ◆	 During their own activation, the character 
more dangerous species. An expedition must may add +1 to a single hit roll, brawling roll, 
move quickly before a large group of  or Savvy roll.
creatures converges on their position, and 

◆	
colonies must improve defenses as a priority. If struck by a hazard, trap or environmental 

concern, the character may add +1 to a 
While none of the lifeforms seen may be fully single Savvy test or Saving Throw.
sapient, many exhibit high intelligence, often to 
the level of mammals found elsewhere. This type The Aid must be used before the roll is made 
of enhanced lifeform must have been seeded for and the marker only grants a +1 to a single 
some purpose. Colony science teams should be roll. It is removed after use, even if the +1 did 
directed to include this in their analysis.” not help.

40



Combat Rules

Contacts
During battle you will frequently be uncertain Contact Movement
of the number and type of enemy forces. When a Contact activates, roll two differently 
Your characters are equipped with scanning colored D6 (we suggest using red and white). 
devices capable of measuring sub-psionic 
molecule distortion (far more advanced than The first die (red) is the Aggression score. The 
the primitive “motion trackers” used in the second die (white) is the Random score. Both 
22nd century), allowing them to detect likely scores are used only for this activation and are 
lifeforms in the vicinity. These can accurately not tracked.
identify the presence of the Slyn and other ◆	 If the Aggression score is highest, the 
sentient creatures, but the wildlife of this world Contact will move towards the nearest 
tends to make accurate scanning difficult. member of your squad. It moves a number 
These suspected lifeforms are represented by of inches equal to the Aggression die.
Contact markers. ◆	 If the Random score is highest, the 

Contact moves in a randomly selected 
Contact Activations direction. It moves a number of inches 

equal to the Random die. This movement 
If any Contacts are present, they move at the is not affected by terrain penalties, but 
end of the Enemy Phase after all revealed Contacts cannot cross terrain that would 
enemies have acted. Contacts are activated otherwise be Impassable. Instead, they 
in order, starting from the one closest to the will move around it using the shortest 
player’s battlefield edge and working your route possible.
way backwards. 

41



Combat Rules

◆	 Contacts that make base contact with the 
edge of the table or which would move off 
the edge will instead halt in place.

◆	 If the dice are equal, the Contact remains 
in place. If there are only 1 or 2 Contacts 
currently on the table, place a new Contact 
adjacent to it. 

Contacts and Other Interactions
The Enemy ignores Contacts for all intents  
and purposes. 
Contacts do not block movement for Enemy 
figures or other Contacts and they can move 
through each other freely. If two Contacts would Contact Reveal
end the Phase overlapping, move one of them When a Contact is revealed, roll 1D6 to 
slightly until they no longer overlap. determine what you have just encountered.
Contacts cannot be attacked in any way, are not The Contact marker is removed, and any 
subject to any environmental hazards and are revealed figures are placed where the marker 
not affected by Area weapons of any kind. was. If more than one figure is placed, the rest 

are placed as you see fit within 1” and in cover, 
Contact Detection if possible. 

Contacts are detected under two circumstances: Revealed enemies always act during the NEXT 
Enemy Phase you come to. This means if they 

If, during the movement of any player are revealed during an Enemy Phase, they 
character or Contact, a clear Line of Sight with cannot act during the current Phase.
no intervening terrain exists between a squad 
member and the Contact. In this case, the If a Contact is revealed while moving, the 
Contact is detected automatically. This occurs at revealed figures are halted in place and do not 
the earliest possible point of the move. complete the move. 

At the end of each Enemy Phase, all Contacts As Contacts revealed in the Quick Actions Phase 
that are in Line of Sight of squad members but would act right after you are done with that 
are partially obscured by terrain must test for phase, you are encouraged to think carefully 
detection. You can test in any order you like. about when to move to get a ‘blip’ in sight. 

Each obscured Contact is detected on a D6 D6 CONTACT REVEAL

roll of 4+. Note that only a single roll is made 1-2 None: False alarm
for each Contact regardless of the number of 
characters within Line of Sight. 3 None: Place 2 new Contacts randomly 

along the battlefield edges.
If a Contact is detected, proceed to the Contact 

4-5 1 Lifeform from your 
Reveal section below. Campaign Lifeform Encounters table

6 2 Lifeforms from your 
Campaign Lifeform Encounters table

42



Combat Rules

The Slyn
Sec-Ops Lifeform Audit [Black Clearance Only] The Precursors also noted that the Slyn normally 
Kensington Reach – File 103 [Closed] exhibit a degree of natural psionic capability. 
There have been reports from some Unity It is theorized that the dampening fields in the 
administrators of hostile organisms known as Reach infuriates them, but all attempts to reach 
the Slyn. Unity troopers have been reported to a negotiated settlement have so far been met 
nickname them as “Raptors”, but this may be a with very aggressive responses.
confusing title given their reported abilities. Bio-Ops have noted from reports that the Slyn 
5th Survey Group Black Clearance on the Slyn operate in pairs, with two warriors moving and 
details a reptilian species not unlike wingless acting as a cohesive unit, possibly in a mental 
Swift. Tracing similar reports from other link with each other. Whether this is strictly a 
surveys, they appear to have originated in the tactical measure or has a deeper social function 
periphery of the galaxy some two million years is unknown.
ago. The species is remarkable in its social 
cohesion but has exhibited limited interest in It is known that the Slyn will send out small 
peaceful interaction, reacting with considerable scout ships to worlds throughout the Reach. 
hostility to any perceived incursions into their Many of these scouts resemble raiding parties 
current territories. Ancient records from other and they will attack Humans or other sapients 
civilizations are unreliable but, according to the on sight, unless completely overmatched. 
Precursors, there is some data that, at intervals Unity troop details have been increased to 
of roughly 3000 years, the entire culture provide protection but, so far, the Bureaucracy 
opts to migrate, sending the Slyn across the has not decided on a long-term plan. Initial 
stars in the search for a new sector of space to conflicts have proved standard weapons 
inhabit. K’Erin records show that during these inefficient, and colony administrators should 
migrations they abandon their old domain. The report any R&D weapon developments that 
reason for these migrations is unknown, as the prove successful. 
Slyn appear to have been good stewards of the 
