roll the same number of D6 as you have player 
characters on the battlefield. Quick Thinking
Assign the D6 results to the characters of  Each scientist on your team allows you to roll 
your choice. one additional die for during the Reaction Roll. 

After assigning one die to each character, any 
Any character assigned a die equal to or below excess dice are discarded. Scientists do not allow 
their Reaction score will act in the Quick you to take more actions, they just increase your 
Action Phase. chances of having characters move before the 
All other characters act in the Slow Action enemy does. If scientists become casualties, the 
Phase. extra dice are lost at the start of the next battle 

round. No change happens mid-round.
Note that all rolled dice must be assigned to a 
character and each character can receive only 
one die. Some factors can result in the player 
rolling more dice than they have characters. 
After rolling, assign dice to your characters and 
then discard any excess dice. 

29



Combat Rules

Player Character Actions
Delaying Within the Quick and Slow Action Phases, 
The player may opt to roll fewer dice than they the player can choose the order in which each 
are allowed. Any character not assigned a die will character will act. Each character carries out 
act in the Slow Action Phase. their intended actions one at a time. You do 
Note that a character assigned a die must act in not have to declare any actions in advance: For 
the phase indicated by the die. example, if one character is going to shoot, you 

can see what the results of that are before you 
pick the next character to act. 

Fireteams and Initiative Once a character has been activated, they 
Grunts are organized into fireteams, typically cannot be activated again this round and 
four to a team, and formed at the point of you cannot take part of an activation, act with 
deployment. You cannot form or dissolve a a different character, and then go back to a 
fireteam during a battle, and it cannot include prior character.
any other character type. The activations work differently depending on 
Fireteams are treated as a single character the type of character being activated:
for initiative and activation purposes: They 
contribute a single die to the pool of initiative Player Character Activations
dice and are assigned a single die. Each ◆	 Scientist, Bot, Civvy, Crew, Grunts: 
member of the fireteam will usually activate The character can perform one Move and 
in the same phase depending on the die they then perform a single action. 
were collectively assigned. Note that grunts in fireteams are not 
Fireteams benefit from additional coordination required to all take the same actions. 
when they are in formation: 

◆	 Scout: The character can perform one 
If all fireteam members left on the table are Move and one action. Scouts may choose 
within 2” of each other (forming a chain, blob, to move before or after taking their action, 
or other formation) they count as having a but the character must complete all of their 
Reaction score one point higher (i.e. 3 instead movement at one time.
of a grunt’s usual 2).

◆	 Trooper: Troopers can perform one Move 
Every fireteam member must be within and then perform a single action. A trooper 
formation distance during the Reaction Roll assigned to the Quick Action Phase may 
to get this bonus, and there must be at least instead choose to forego moving and take 
two grunts left. (A single surviving grunt is one action in each of the Quick and Slow 
not a formation!) Action Phases (typically allowing them to 

attack twice). 

Player Character-controlled Activations
In special scenarios you might have non-player 
characters temporarily fighting alongside the 
player characters. In this case, they are treated 
as part of the player’s forces and have Reaction 
dice rolled normally. A character without a 
Reaction score does not receive a rolled result, 
automatically going in the Slow Actions Phase.

30



Combat Rules

The Actions ◆	 Enemy without ranged weapons or 
The following actions are generally available who are out of range will simply move, 
to player characters: (potentially entering Brawling combat –  

see page 39).
ACTION DESCRIPTION

Carry Out Task Perform a task required Hesitation
in a scenario. Lifeforms and Tactical Enemies that activate 

Rush Move an additional 2". without an opponent visible to them must 
roll 1D6. On a 1, they hesitate and do not 

Shoot Fire one weapon you act this Phase.  The Slyn and Sleepers are not 
are carrying. affected by this.

Aids an ally within 3”. 
Place an Aid marker on the ally 

Aid if they do not already have one End Phase
OR remove a Stun marker First, check if any scenario conditions have 

from the ally. been met that would end the battle. A scenario 
always ends if, during the End Phase, there 

Use Equipment Use a carried item which 
requires an action. are no player characters on the table. Note 

that an absence of enemy figures does NOT 
Enemy Actions automatically end the scenario if the scenario 

rules allow for more enemy figures to arrive.
In the Enemy Actions Phase, the enemy 
activates all specialists first, then activates all If you are fighting the Slyn, the battle ends if, at 
remaining figures. In both cases, activate the the end of the round, only a single pair remains 
enemies closest to the player’s battlefield edge on the table.
first, then progress backwards across the table. During this phase, check for anything that says 
Note that only Tactical Enemies have specialists. it should happen at the end of the round.

Enemies only use the Shoot option in normal If you are fighting Lifeforms or Tactical Enemies 
play. In special scenarios or when playing with and inflicted casualties this round, Panic checks 
a Game Master, the enemy can perform actions are made now (see page 40). Note that some 
suitable to the scenario.  enemies are Fearless, such as the Sleeper robot 

species (see page 154).
◆	 Enemy with ranged weapons move as 

discussed in the movement rules below. If Slyn do not take Panic checks, but if only a 
they have Line of Sight to an opponent, they single pair remains on the table at this stage, 
will then take an action to fire at the target. the battle ends immediately as they teleport 

out (see page 152). 

CARRYING OUT Tasks
Scenario objectives and conditions often typically Savvy. A roll equal to or above the 
require a Task roll. Characters must be within target number indicated in the scenario is 
1” of the terrain feature, objective, or similar a success. 
feature to perform a Task. Unless otherwise stated, a particular Task can 
To perform the Task, roll 1D6 and add the only be attempted once per battle round.
ability score mentioned in the scenario, 

31



Combat Rules

AI ENEMY VariationS 
(optional rule)

This rule is optional as it adds an additional AI Enemy Variations apply only to Lifeforms and 
die roll to the game sequence. It is included Tactical Enemies. It does not apply to the Slyn or 
for players who prefer a more unpredictable Sleeper enemy types. 
battle where the enemy will not always act 
as expected. You can use this rule in some To use AI Enemy Variations, roll 1D6 at the start 
battles and not in others as you see fit. It is not of the Enemy Actions Phase and consult the 
required that you use it in every encounter. table below. A ploy means one of the enemies 

in the encounter is up to something, but an AI 
action means one of the enemies gets an idea 

The Enemy are not Idiots into their heads. 

In a game like this, you need to inject a plethora D6 AI VARIATION

of moment-by-moment decisions into moving 1 Roll on the Ploy table
and positioning enemy forces. If you are 
uncertain what to do, review the AI guidelines 2-4 Nothing happens
and if you cannot find a satisfactory answer, 5-6 Roll on the AI Action table 
randomly pick from the available options. 
In most cases, defaulting to “the enemy would As the Ploy and AI Action tables also use a D6, 
pick the most logical approach”, will do just fine. you can speed up the process by rolling two 

differently colored dice at the same time, with 
When in doubt, remember that the enemy is one color being the AI Variation table and 
intended to represent people (or creatures or the other color die only being read if you are 
robots) who are trying to win a fight. An action directed to one of the other tables. If this seems 
that is sub-optimal is fine: A Human player may too confusing, just roll one at a time. 
not want a single combatant to engage several 
opponents, but the AI is happy to do so because There are separate tables for Tactical Enemies 
it keeps the game moving along. However, and Lifeforms. Ensure you use the correct one.
the AI should not act in ways that are evidently The ploy or action affects a single enemy figure. 
suicidal or engineered to give you a cheap win. Randomly select which target figure from those 

present on the table. 

Tactical Enemies Ploys table

D6 PLOY DESCRIPTION

1 Redeploy The target is moved to the nearest terrain feature and placed on the highest point. 
2 Take charge The next Panic die rolled by the enemy side is ignored. 

The target removes all Stun and Sprawling markers. It then activates normally. 
3 Recovery Note that the target for this ploy must be an enemy with Stun or Sprawling 

markers. If nobody eligible is on the table, there is no effect.
