detailed as part of the Enemy Generation Occupied sectors are areas that the enemy 
chapter, page 146. can control by patrolling it. Any colonists 

attempting to explore or exploit the region 
While you will have to undertake military would be captured or killed, making the area 
duties, this is not a grand tactical campaign: inaccessible to your personnel.
you will not be asked to maneuver battalions 
around a war-torn battlefield. These groups Each enemy may spread as a result of random 
rarely have the strength to coordinate a full-on events, occupying different or additional 
assault, but will present a nuisance as the sectors. A sector that is occupied by the enemy 
campaign continues. You will need to decisively is inaccessible: You cannot carry out Exploration 
defeat them in the end to secure the colony. or Delve missions there, for example. 

The enemy is not present on the campaign Resources and Ancient Sites do not disappear 
map until you complete the campaign’s first when occupied by the enemy, they are just not 
Milestone. An enemy will emerge on the map available to you until the sector is cleared out.
the first three times you complete a Milestone.

50



The Campaign

Taking the Fight to the Enemy If you defeat the Boss, a search of their 
To defeat an enemy, you need to track down possessions will determine the location of the 
their Strongpoint and to do this, you need Enemy Strongpoint. This is placed in a random 
to find the relevant data by locating a Boss. sector occupied by the enemy in question. 
The tracking of Bosses is done by a system of The Strongpoint Attack
Enemy Information. Once the Strongpoint is known to you, you 
Obtaining Enemy Information may opt to carry out an Assault Mission at a 
Enemy Information represents data that can moment of your choosing. Succeeding in the 
help you in obtaining information on one Assault destroys that enemy and removes them 
of the Enemies in the campaign. This might from the campaign. 
be documents showing their hide outs and If the mission fails, the Strongpoint remains in 
camps, intercepted communications, computer place. Note that it will remain at full strength 
predictions run by the nerds back at base, a each time you attack, so make sure you are 
map dropped by one of the enemy grunts, or kitted out for a tough fight. 
any number of other sources. The enemy will respond to a failed attack: 
Whatever the source, Enemy Information Randomly select an unoccupied map sector 
will help you determine where an enemy adjacent to the Strongpoint which becomes 
Boss can be located, and gathering Enemy occupied by that Tactical Enemy immediately.
Information is required to progress against a 
particular enemy. The Enemy in Retreat
Enemy Information are always specific to a If a Tactical Enemy is defeated at their 
particular enemy in the campaign and cannot Strongpoint, all occupied sectors are 
be transferred. abandoned immediately. That enemy will no 

longer return to bother you. 
Enemy Information is obtained in the 
following ways: You may immediately increase Colony Morale 

by +5.
◆	 You automatically obtain 1 Enemy 

Information each time you fight an 
enemy and win. Supremacy

◆	 Your scouts can earn Enemy Information You are not required to destroy all three 
by taking Scout actions. enemies to complete the campaign. The End 

Game will require you to defeat some, however. 
Once you have obtained 6 Enemy If you are pursuing the Ascension, Isolation, or 
Information, there is no need to get any more: Independence endings you must have defeated 
You have gained a complete insight into the at least one, while the Loyalty ending requires 
communications, habits, and plans of that defeating at least two.
particular enemy. Consult page 160 for details on End Game 
Hunting Down a Boss mechanics.
To defeat the enemy, the first step is to find 
and capture a Boss. This requires a successful 
Enemy Information roll (see pages 60-61) 
and then carrying out a Strike Mission  
(page 127).

51



The Campaign

Campaign Setup
Determining Your Colonization It should be divided into a square grid. If you 
Agenda use computer software to draw up a game map, 
Roll D100 on the Expedition Type table to odds are it will have an option to produce a 
determine why you are out here to begin with. grid, but otherwise one can be added easily. 

Each square is known as a Sector in the game.

Creating Your Map The default is a 6 x 6 grid, giving 36 sectors  
in total. If you want a larger map with more 

Your map is the area where the campaign takes space to play on, you can make the grid 6 x 10 
place. It cannot encompass the entire planet (60 sectors) or even 10 x 10 (100 sectors).
(even our own Moon has a surface area of some 
38 million square kilometers). The grid can have as many sectors as you 

like, but the rows and columns should be 
Instead, your map will depict the area near the numbered, allowing you to select random 
site your colony touched down. The exact scale sectors through dice rolls. For example, if your 
is dependent on your campaign intentions.  grid is 8 x 10, you would roll a D8 and D10: 
A campaign depicting a smaller colony might A 3 and a 7 would mean row 3 and column 7. 
only deal with an area 20-30 miles in every 
direction, while a campaign depicting a huge If you need to pick a random sector adjacent to 
settlement might extend for hundreds of miles. an existing one a D8 can be rolled. The top left 

adjacent square is numbered 1 and you then 
Regardless of scale, keep track of the local area just count clockwise around the target.
with a pen-and-paper map (or similar).  

Expedition Type table 

D100 EXPEDITION 
TYPE DESCRIPTION EFFECTS

01-15 Scientific Mission Your task is to develop a colony that You begin the campaign with  
will be usable as a research station 3 Research Points. 

in the future.
16-30 Corporate Funded Unity Corporations have an  Your initial campaign map (see 

interest in developing colonies for below) begins with 
resource extraction and often fund  2 additional Investigation Sites.

missions of their own.
31-60 Unity Colonization All is proceeding according to the You begin the campaign with  

Drive directives of the Bureaucracy. 3 units of Raw Materials.
61-80 Independent Unity approves a number of You begin the campaign with  

Mission independent missions with the goal 1 additional Story Point.
of later incorporating them into 

Unity proper.
81-90 Military Expedition You are paving the way for a future You begin the game with  

military outpost. 2 additional grunts on your roster.
91-00 Affinity Group The colony will be built around  You begin the campaign with  

a philosophical principle or  5 Morale points.
belief system.

52



The Campaign

Travel on the Map Recording Map Factors
Note that there are no travel rules in the 
game. As your colonists are well supplied with As you play the campaign, the map will start to 
vehicles, they can always reach any destination fill up with information:
