Despite all the achievements of Humanity, Shival nodded. The information sunk in as the 
the Precursors still treated them as immature team assessed and reassessed the statement.  
children at times. As their eyes focused on her again, she crossed 

her arms and sat back on the edge of the table.
Shival nodded and called up the maps she 
had been working on. The digital image filled “The question is who built it and what is it 
the monitors in layers, first the topographical pointing to?”
map, then the scout survey data, and finally One of the newer recruits to the team, a Feral 
the icons and symbols she had added. The with a prior history in the army, grunted and 
team stirred to life as they focused on what interjected:
was in front of them. “The real question is why are they so angry we 
“You see it too, don’t you?” She looked at them might find it.” 
expectantly and was not disappointed.  

172



APPENDICES
	 Gaming Basics 174
	 Learning to Play Adventure Wargames 176
	 Finding Suitable Miniatures 177
	 Unified Space 180
	 Game Mastering 185
	 Designer Notes 188
	 Inspirations 189
	 Colony Tracking Sheet 190
	 Index 192
	 Quick Reference 196

173



Appendices

Gaming Basics
If you aren’t an experienced gamer or, more So, rolling a 3 and a 7 would be a score of 37, 
likely, you are a somewhat experienced a 0 and a 4 would be a 4, a 5 and a 0 would be 
gamer who’d like a quick reference on the ‘5X’ a 50. 0 and 0 counts as 100 (although tables 
approach, this short chapter is for you. usually just show it as ‘00’)

If the rules allow something to be rerolled, the 
Dice Rolling original result is ignored. 
This game involves a lot of dice rolling, most 
often using common six-sided dice, referred to Random Directions
here as D6. You can purchase custom direction dice, 
◆	 When only a single die is rolled it can be or you can make your own by drawing 

written as D6 or 1D6. arrows on blank dice. Otherwise, 
◆	 If you must roll multiple six-sided dice and a ten-sided die can be used. 

add the results together, this will be written Roll it near the origin point 
and then use the tip of 0

as 2D6 (two dice with six sides each), 3D6 4
(three dice), and so forth. the uppermost face to 7

show the direction. 
◆	 Sometimes you may be asked to roll 

multiple D6, and not add them together; in 
such a case this will be written as ‘two D6’, Random Selection
for example. You will often be called upon to select randomly 

A ten-sided dice is known as a D10. To run from among multiple choices such as terrain 
your game smoothly, have five or six D6 and a features or characters. To do so, roll a D10 and 
couple of D10 available. Multiple colors of dice count from top to bottom (on a roster) or left 
are also handy, as is a full set of roleplaying to right (on a table). If you roll higher than the 
dice including D4, D8, D12, and D20. number of possible choices, you may select 

the outcome. For example, if you are selecting 
Dice rolls are often modified. This means a dice randomly from a roster of 7 characters, a roll of 
roll has a number added to or subtracted from 1-7 would be the character with that number 
the roll to produce the final result. For example, on the roster, while 8-10 means you choose. 
a D6 with a +1 modifier (written as D6+1) 
gives a final result between 2 and 7. Miniatures on the Table
If the rules say something happens on a 
‘natural’ result, it means the number must be Characters in the game world are represented 
rolled on the actual die, before any modifiers by miniatures, each of which stands in for 
are applied. If something is going to happen a single character or creature. Figures are 
on a natural 6, rolling a 5 with a +1 modifier mounted on a flat plate called a base. These 
does not count. can be decorated nicely with bushes, rocks, 

sand or textured modelling material and paint. 
The Campaign rules and Mission Setup also 
use percentile dice (usually written as D100). When the base of a figure is touching 
Unless you’re lucky enough to own a one- something, it is said to be in base contact.  
hundred-sided die (yes, someone does make For example, two opposing characters can  
them), roll two D10 with the first counting as fight in brawling combat when they are in  
the tens and the second counting as the ones.  base contact.

174

3

8



Appendices

Base Contact Examples: Measurement Example:

A B
C D

Figures (A) and (B) are in base contact. measuring to. To measure to a figure, measure 
to the nearest point of the base. Never measure 

Figures (C) and (D) are seperated by to or from gun barrels, hands, or the figure itself.
a narrow barricade. As they can still Again, you may amend this slightly if you have 
reasonably be engaged in close assault a figure mounted on an unusually large base.
across this obstacle, they are also 
considered to be in base contact. You can always measure before deciding 

whether to do something.

When moving figures, sometimes two figures 
who should obviously be in base contact cannot Line of Sight
be placed in contact due to the way their arms, To determine if two figures can shoot at each 
wings, and similar are posed. If so, place them other, see if they have a Line of Sight (LoS). 
as close as you can and just make a mental note. This is a straight line drawn between the 
The bases of two figures cannot overlap, but if figures: If it reaches the target, they are in sight. 
you have a figure on a particularly large base If a terrain feature or another figure is in the 
you may have to amend this rule a little bit. way, there is no Line of Sight.

The base is also used to determine the position Some players use a string or laser line tool 
of the figure for all game purposes. If the base to measure this, but estimating is fine. You 
is partially within a terrain feature, the figure can always lean down over the table to gain a 
is assumed to be “in” that feature for game ‘model’s eye’ view. You might well be surprised 
purposes such as being in cover. at what is (and often is not) visible.

Exact facing of the miniatures is not a factor Sometimes terrain provides Cover. Depending 
in these game rules. Characters can always on the type of terrain, this may break LoS.
fire in any direction, not just the direction they completely or may make someone a more 
appear to be facing (although the game is more difficult target to hit (see examples, right). This 
visually appealing if they do face the action!). is discussed in ‘Shooting’, on pages 35-36.

Ranges and Measurements Absolute Timing
Movement, weapons fire, and more are The game uses a principle called Absolute 
measured in tabletop inches. Miniatures games Timing: Everything on the table is in that exact 
traditionally used inches, and we’ve stuck with state and position when you resolve a rule. For 
that. Players who prefer metric measurements example, if one character downs their target, 
can multiply all values by 2.5. that may mean another character now lacks a 

target to shoot at (or now has an open path to 
To measure from a figure, measure from the move). It also means actions are not usually 
point of the base nearest the direction you are queued up or declared in advance. 

175



Appendices

Learning to Play 
Adventure Wargames

Live by the Dice, Die by the Dice otherwise playing as you normally would. More 
Adventure wargaming relies heavily on dice. ambitious players can invent more involved 
This means that things can become very systems such as taking turns commanding the 
unpredictable very quickly. You may run into monsters or playing two separate campaigns 
fights that are extremely difficult, or you may that take place on the same world. 
find the battle a breeze. Some turns you are For more advice on playing with a Game 
swimming in rewards and others you lose two Master, see page 185.
of your most valuable squad members.
The rules provide Story Points (see page 56) Avoid Do-overs
to take the edge off the worst luck, but the ebb 
and flow of fortune is a key part of the game When learning a new game, it is easy to mess 
experience. In general, you will find that being something up. You forgot something that was 
“good” at the game means optimizing your supposed to be in a scenario, forgot to check 
opportunities and minimizing the bad luck. for enemy Panic, or you misunderstood how a 

weapon works. Unless the mistake is the last 
The variability also helps make the game feel action you did, just move on and avoid a similar 
more exciting and less planned. When new mistake going forward. Trying to undo and 
players look back at a few campaign turns rework multiple actions or even an entire game 
completed, they often find themselves being turn is almost never going to be worth the 
surprised at how well the experience fits frustration and can be really demoralizing.
together when taken as a whole. In the long run, things will usually even out. 

If you feel like you seriously messed up the 
Nobody is Special difficulty of the game, hand out a few extra 
There is no special player character role in this Story Points if you made it too difficult or add 
game. All of your characters are at risk of injury a few extra enemies the next time you are in 
and death, and when the dice has it out for you, battle if you made it too easy.
it is time to pay the piper.
This is not a bleak and depressing thing, Help!
however. It also means that everybody is a hero If you are unsure how a rule is supposed 
waiting for their moment. There is something to work, read it again carefully. Most of the 
immensely satisfying about pulling off a tricky rules are intended to be interpreted in a 
combat, because you played your tactics well literal fashion. If applying rules text exactly 
and had a few hot dice to boot. as written does not produce a logical result, 
Embrace the moments when they happen, and you are welcome to ask the author for help at 
they will help carry the day. nordicweaselgames@icloud.com or search 

for Five Parsecs on Discord.

Playing with Friends With a big, randomly generated game, you 
may well run into a weird case where things 

The simplest way to play the game together is do not make sense, even though they would 
to split your squad during missions. Usually this normally. If so, adopt the most obvious answer 
means each of you taking four characters and for what ought to happen and move on.

176



Appendices

Finding Suitable Miniatures
There are two lines of thought when it comes to usually have more of a “hard science fiction” 
selecting figures: The first: Choose figures you look to them. They are also cheap and easy to 
really like the look of and create characters and paint up. Their larger 28/32mm brethren are 
settings to match. The other: Let the rules create often more detailed and rewarding for detailed 
a character and then source a suitable figure. painting, but cost and space taken up naturally 
Either way is fine, depending on what you have increases. Both options will serve you well.
in mind. Many players pick one or two figures 
they really want to use, then let the game There are too many excellent small-scale 
decide for the rest. manufacturers out there to highlight some 

and omit others, although we should probably 
It is difficult to match equipment exactly, just mention...
especially as characters often change their 
equipment between missions. A general 
approach of “pistol, rifle, big gun” works.  ...Five Parsecs Minis
A figure holding a rifle can represent any rifle 
you need it to be. This is especially true for Five Parsecs from Home is proud to be a minis-
characters brought in from other agnostic rule set, but if you prefer to use figures 
Five Parsecs games where the array specifically designed to replicate the species 
of weaponry can become staggering. and enemies of the 5PFH setting, a wide 

range of official resin and 3D print miniatures, 
These game rules are intended to be scale- vehicles and terrain is now available from 
neutral;15mm figures are readily available and www.fiveparsecs.com.

177



Appendices

If you absolutely cannot find what you are they can support miniatures just fine. You don’t 
looking for, a time-honored tradition is to escape having to build things, as you need to 
convert a miniature to fit. This is the process of collect suitable assets, but there are packs out 
modifying an existing miniature – for example there for use, including fan packs specifically 
replacing a weapon, swapping the head for a for Five Parsecs games.
different one, removing a piece of equipment 
or adding one, and so forth. Plastic figures The Face of Battle
are easiest to cut and glue back together. Many gamers enjoy collecting, and the 
Converting is often seen as an expert-level temptation to build a squad of each enemy 
skill, but it is easy to do and can be a lot of fun. type is high. You do not have to do this to 
Just make sure you try it out first on a cheap play the game, of course. At the most basic, 
miniature you don’t need! if you have a general “enemy” squad with 
If you visit the Five Parsecs Facebook fan group a few grunts, a leader, and a few special 
or the Nordic Weasel Games discord, you weapons figures you can tell apart, they 
can find countless photos of people’s figures can do double duty for most of the Tactical 
and gaming tables. No doubt something will Enemies in the game.
inspire you. As you experience the game, you will discover 

what enemies you are fine reusing figures for 
Alternatives to Traditional Miniatures and which ones you want to use new figures 
3D printing is an expensive proposition to get to represent. If you have already played Five 
started on, but if you are (or have become!) a Parsecs from Home, you are likely to already 
dedicated miniatures gamer, it can represent have figures you can use for many of the 
great savings, long term. Many 3D figures can enemies you encounter. You might enjoy 
also be scaled up or down to work with your adding a few new figures to those collections 
preferred scale. It is common for players to use to refresh them, but you can enjoy all the hard 
a mixture of regular and printed miniatures. work you did painting miniatures. 
A cheap but fun option is paper miniatures. If you have an ongoing story from an old 
These are available from various companies campaign, you might even link them. Maybe 
with many being intended for use in role the renegades you encounter in Planetfall are 
playing games. They are cheap, and you can the remnants of a pirate gang you encountered 
print out as many as you need, which is always in your last campaign? 
helpful for monsters and enemy troops. For animals, your imagination can run wild. As 
The digital frontier has reached miniatures the animals in the rules are described by their 
gaming as well, and virtual abilities and not their appearance, anything 
tabletops can be downloaded, goes. Proper alien lifeforms are not common 
too. While most of these are aimed in figure ranges available for sale but, luckily, 
at board games and role-playing games, many fantasy figure ranges offer all manner 

of monsters and critters. A visit to a 
toy store will also furnish 
you with any number of 

plastic or rubber insects, 
lizards, and more. 
These can often be 

used as is, but a quick 
paint job can really 

178



Appendices

change the look for a figure and some of them The table surface itself can also be used to 
will end up looking impressive. Conversion good effect, such as using a colored tablecloth. 
work can also be done, such as adding horns, This can be spray-painted to create colored 
cutting down tails, or even attaching (or patches in various shades. Even a subtle effect 
removing) a couple of extra legs. can be noticeable. 

Alien ruins are a part of many science fiction 
Finding Suitable Terrain Pieces books and shows and there are plenty of kits 
While Planetfall can be played with any gaming ready to purchase from various game lines. 
terrain you have available, the campaign will Ruined walls can also be built easily using 
feel more exciting if your terrain reflects your foam board cut to shape: For some quick ruins, 
brave new world. Fortunately, wargaming cut out a big pile of foam board squares, then 
terrain is readily available commercially. cut from corner to corner in a zig-zag motion to 
Unfortunately, truly “alien” terrain is much less create a pair of walls. Reassemble the various 
common, and you may have to improvise a walls on a base of cardboard or foam board and 
little bit. paint them appropriately. 

A good first place to look is the local pet store. Styrofoam from packaging material can also 
The fish tank section will often have an array be cut into suitable shapes though it needs 
of strange and alien-looking plastic plants and to be treated with a sealing material before 
rock formations. The rock formations can usually spray-painting it (PVA glue mixed with water 
be used as they are, whereas the plants will will do fine).
usually need mounting on some sort of base A lot of gaming terrain is also commercially 
or attaching to metal wire to create interesting available in plastic or MDF (laser-cut wood), and 
alien flora. They can usually be had very cheaply. if you would rather purchase things outright, 
A simple trick to add an “alien” quality is do not feel ashamed in doing so. MDF kits are 
to play with colors. Earth’s natural flora is very cheap and lightweight, though they tend 
predominantly green, so modifying or even to lack detail. Plastic is easy to modify if you 
replacing that can be extremely effective. want to cut something away, but the price is 
An alien forest of purple shades will look often higher.
incredibly striking on the table, though you As your terrain collection grows, you can start 
may find that the terrain ends up being a bit to create unique looks across your alien world, 
too bold to use in other games! which can help tell the story. For example, if 
Of course, there is no reason alien planets you use a lot of rock formations in one game, 
cannot have green grass and rolling hills. the next battle may have a small number of 
In this case, you can use smaller features to rocks placed alongside one edge of the table 
change the feeling, such as placing rocks and to show that your mission takes place near the 
rock formations or scattered odd-looking plants prior location. 
around the table. A plowed field surrounded by You can also create groups of terrain that you 
purple plants will look intriguing and does a tend to use together to create a more cohesive 
great job bringing home the “not on Earth after look. In nature, we usually see similar plants 
all” feel you are looking for. near each other, and your table will look far 
A trip to a home improvement store can more realistic when it is built in this fashion.
often provide interesting items intended for 
decoration, such as colored pebbles or  
plastic crystals.

179



Appendices

Unified Space
Five Parsecs is an open-ended game that can installation of peculiar features such as animal 
easily be adapted to any science fiction setting claws or tails. 
you enjoy or want to create. However, it also has 
its own setting to explore. This chapter provides Such adaptation is expensive and less common 
the basic information you need to know to get among frontiers folk, but Humanity can be an 
by in Unified Space. unpredictable lot to look at.

Some Humans are, in fact not Human at 
Unity all. Along with uplifted animals such as the 

canine-hybrid Ferals, genetically engineered 
Unity stretches across the stars wherever sub-species such as Hulkers and Stalkers are 
Humanity has ventured. It serves as promoter Human as far as originating from Human 
and defender of Human interests and is genetic stock. 
usually considered the strongest of the galactic 
powers, possessing vast armies and fleets to Clothes, fashion, habits, and social mores are 
enforce its will. unpredictable among the Human species. 

While Unity enforces certain cultural factors, 
Formed in response to external threats, most there are too many Humans on too many 
Human worlds exist within the protective worlds, influenced by too many factors to make 
web of Unity, accepting the rule of law (and any definitive prediction about how a given 
its enforcement) in return for access to trade Human will look, talk, and be outfitted. 
networks and a high standard of living. 
Nominally, all Human majority worlds are 
considered subject to Unity rule, but rebellions, Language
splinter factions, and dissidents are common, In Unity, the dominant language is SVIM 
and the armies of Unity are never idle for long. (Standardized Vocal Interface Method): A 
Life among the core worlds presents some of constructed language developed for clarity 
the most advanced and comfortable living and ease of learning. SVIM is mandatory on 
conditions Humans have ever experienced, all Unity-controlled worlds and due to its 
but can also be stifling in its mundanity and ubiquitous nature, it is also spoken widely 
the weight of a highly regimented culture. beyond the reach of Unity itself. 
The more adventurous have traditionally Due to this widespread usage, it is also 
found employment among the star ships, the common with many non-Humans, and most 
fleets, or the military, while many seek out the traders and diplomats across the galaxy are 
ultimate adventure as a colonist. likely to be at least somewhat proficient. For 

the same reason, most translation systems can 
The Human Condition process SVIM as well.

The Humans of the far future take many forms. Unity does not restrict the use of local 
Unity scientific achievement has given rise to secondary languages, and it is not uncommon 
near-miraculous levels of genetic engineering for entire core-world enclaves to speak their 
and modification, allowing for a Human own language. In order to be permitted for 
species that lives longer and is in greater health usage, the language must be interpretable by 
than their ancestors. It has also allowed both standard translation devices. 
practical and cosmetic modifications including 
changes of coloration, hair growth patterns, or 

180



Appendices

Among the Fringes, SVIM is still common As Ferals are Human uplifts, they speak SVIM, 
though linguistic drift can cause some dialects though tend to have a distinctive accent due to 
to be difficult to understand. Many colonies their jaws and vocal cords, making them hard 
adopt loan-words from other languages, to understand unless the listener is familiar. 
especially if the colony has significant dealings Some separatist groups try to develop Feral 
with alien species. languages more suitable to their physique. 
The Administration takes considerable effort Despite popular misconceptions, Ferals do not 
to update SVIM to account for technological use body language any more than Humans do 
developments, popular alien loan words, and find the suggestion offensive.
and to contain linguistic drift. On remote 
colony worlds, it is not unusual to find The Major Galactic Powers
linguists hunting for new words in the same 
manner a treasure hunter might search for The galaxy is brimming with sapient life all 
forgotten treasures. pursuing their own agendas and ambitions 

among the stars. The three major political 
Precursors and the K’Erin can both speak powers that share the stage with Unity are the 
SVIM with ease and can adapt to most Human Precursors, an ancient and refined species 
languages relatively easily. with a knack for psionic talents, the K’Erin, 
Swift learn SVIM quickly; however, the high a proud and warlike species that thrives on 
pitch and rapid-fire delivery makes them conflict, and the Soulless, a purely digital 
difficult to understand. Their peculiar logic species that operate in the physical world 
means that even when transcribed, they rarely through robotic shells connected to their 
make much sense. hivemind network.

181



Appendices

A number of small species contest their The Rogue and the Renegade
particular regions of space, ranging from major 
habitation centers across dozens of star systems The edges of civilized space have ample room 
to a single system and perhaps a few colonies. for those who would benefit from being 

outside the watchful eye of the law. Pirates raid 
Interactions between powers can range from shipping to resell the cargo (and occasionally 
warfare to trade to diplomacy to coexistence the ship itself), petty warlords demand 
to ignoring each other, often at the same time. extortionate tolls, and raiders strike at colonies 
