vehicles, they can always reach any destination fill up with information:
on the map regardless of intervening terrain. Resource Level
Initial Placements This value determines how likely it R3
Pick a home sector (or roll randomly) to is that mineral wealth will be found 
determine where your colony starts out. The in the area. Write this into a sector 
colony always takes up a single sector and all before the Hazard level.
buildings you construct will fit within the same Hazard Level
sector. Mark it with a capital ‘H’ or a star. This value determines how R3
Next, mark 10 sectors on the map as dangerous the area is in terms of 
Investigation Sites. You can write a capital wildlife and natural hazards. Write H5
“I” or “?” in those sectors or use a map symbol this into a sector after the Resource level. 
of your own creation. Determine the sectors 
randomly, but if you roll a sector that already Resource and Hazard Levels are discussed 
has been selected, pick any empty sector further on page 60.
adjacent instead. Enemy Occupation
Initial scans returned these sites as particularly If the sector is under enemy control, 
noteworthy for exploration. Many show signs this prevents you from carrying out ψ
of strange but ancient construction, unusual any other missions in the area. Mark 
bio-signals, or evidence of high concentrations the sector in an appropriate manner such as 
of valuable resources. using a specific color or symbol for each enemy.
All other map sectors are simply “unexplored” Enemy Strongpoint
for now. Once located, an enemy Strongpoint 

represents the headquarters and ψ
? ? hideout of a particular enemy type.  

It must be assaulted and destroyed to put 
? H ? an end to that threat. Mark a Strongpoint by 

shading its sector in the appropriate color or 
marking it with an “S”.

? Strongpoints are discussed further on page 51.

? Ancient Signs
Scans and scout reports suggest that 

? ? ? something unusual is located here. A
An Ancient Sign may turn out to be 

? alien ruins, a strange natural feature, or similar. 
It can be investigated, provided the area has 
already been explored and cleared of enemies.
Mark this sector with an “A”.
Ancient Signs are discussed further on 
page 61.

53



The Campaign

Map Terrain features and so on. It is helpful to try to focus 
The map will also need to be populated with the map on the type of terrain features you 
terrain. This can be broken out into broad already have available in your collection, 
types but should be interesting to look at, with though you may enjoy a challenge or an excuse 
mountain ranges and forests to explore. You to build more terrain.
may even have a map available that you would 
like to use such as a real-world map or a map Investigation, Exploration,  
from a science fiction world. and Exploitation
During the campaign, the map serves to help Investigation sites can be subjected to an 
inform your choice of terrain features when Investigation Mission during the campaign. 
playing a game. If a mission takes place in a This removes the Investigation marker and, 
forested area, you should have lots of forest as part of the campaign, allows your scouts 

to determine the Resource and Hazard levels 
of the sector. The sector’s status becomes 
Explored and eligible for an Exploration 
Mission.

Exploration Missions will reduce the 
Resource levels of a sector. Once Resources 

reach 0, the sector’s status changes 
to Exploited and, unless an event 

repopulates it, it will not furnish 
additional rewards.
To find out more about Exploration 

Missions, see page 117.

54



The Campaign

Other Colony Statistics

Colony Morale Campaign Resources
Your Colony Morale score measures how well As you play the campaign, you will obtain 
the colonists think you are doing. At the start various resources representing raw materials, 
of the campaign, it is set at 0 and can go both strange animal, plant, and mineral samples, 
up and down. There is no limit to how high and other data. Once sourced, resources can 
Morale can go. be saved up as long as you like. There is no 
Any time Morale drops to -10 or lower, set maximum to the number of resources of any 
Colony Morale back to 0, but roll for a Morale type that you can have stored at a given time.
Incident. You begin with the following resources set to 0: 
For more on Morale, see page 89. Raw Materials

These can be processed into Build Points for 
Campaign Milestones construction purposes or be used to repair 
The campaign rules use Milestones to damage to the colony. Up to 3 units of Raw 
determine your progress. These milestones are Materials can be used for each of these 
attained by achieving certain factors of scientific purposes per campaign turn. 
and colony development and are self-paced. For more on Raw Materials, see page 88.
If you prefer a more competitive experience, 
track how many campaign turns it takes you Research Points (RP)
to complete the campaign game by achieving These represent scientific finds that can be 
every Milestone. used to develop new weapons, equipment, 
If you prefer a more story-oriented experience, and medical cures. They are used to 
you may not worry about the Milestones much conduct research.
or at all. If you prefer to just play to see what For more on Research, see page 91.
happens, they are not mandatory. 

Build Points (BP)
For more on Milestones, see page 156. These represent ready-to-use materials that 

either have already been processed or which 
Colony Capabilities require minimal processing. They are used to 
Your colony is measured in a number of construct new buildings.
different abilities and capabilities, tracked For more on Buildings, see page 97.
on your Colony Tracking Sheet. If you are just 
starting your campaign, the default values are: Augmentation Points (AP)
◆	 Initial Colony Roster size is 8. These represent the degree to which your 

colonists can adapt their biology to the 
◆	 Build Points per turn is 1. new environment. Use AP to purchase 
◆	 Research Points per turn is 1. Augmentations.

◆	 Building Repair Capacity is 1. For more on Genetic Augmentation,  
see page 105.

◆	 Colony Defenses are 0. 
◆	 Colony Integrity is 0. 

55



The Campaign

Story Points
A randomly generated adventure means ◆	 Roll 2D6, pick the highest of the dice, and 
experiencing the unpredictable, with various take any combination of Research Points, 
tables and events coming together to form an Build Points, or Raw Materials that add up to 
amazing and exciting story. However, there is the highest die.
always the threat that something irrational and 
irritating gets generated when you know just ◆	 Ignore a roll on the post-battle injury table.
what would make total sense. 
Of course, you could just change what happens. Narration
After all, it is your game, and you know better There is another way to use Story Points: To tell 
than anyone else what would be the most fun a story.
for you. However, some players balk at this, 
either because it feels like cheating or because If you have an idea for something that would 
they worry they might get carried away (the really make sense, you can pay a Story Point 
power of a Colony Administrator is enough, to make that happen. Whether it is a character 
without becoming godlike!) customizing their gun to get a small bonus, 

developing a special skill to reflect how much 
Others enjoy the challenge of the random they hate the Slyn after almost dying in battle, 
environment but would appreciate just a tiny or simply having a specific event occur, the 
bit of direction and control. Story Points are choice is up to you. 
the solution. You will want to keep the event roughly along 
When your campaign begins, you typically start the scale of events that are already in the game, 
with a total of 5 Story Points – note this down if you wish the game balance to remain stable. 
on your Colony Tracking Sheet. (Note: this start In many cases, you can use an existing event or 
number can be varied based on how easy or swap one out to get the story result you want.
difficult you would like the campaign to be.) This option is listed separately because it is a 
If (when) a character dies, you receive  little more open-ended and you will probably 
1 Story Point as compensation, and there are already know whether you like this option 
a number of other events and functions in the or whether you want to stick to the more 
game that can offer Story Points to represent mechanical options presented above. 
the fickle hand of fate or the way heroes tend 
to make their own luck. Scenarios
Spending Story Points You do not have to pay Story Points to play a 

special scenario. Create fun adventures all day 
A Story Point can be spent on any of the long and have a great time exploring.
following benefits: In a campaign that relies heavily on custom 
◆	 Roll again on any random events table scenarios or Game Mastered play, Story Points 

and pick either result. If the event affects a may have to be modified somewhat to avoid 
random character or other subject, you may causing difficulties with the story. If in doubt, 
choose the character or subject. consider sticking to the mechanical effects. 

◆	 Prevent a roll on the Enemy Actions,  A Game Master can award Story Points if it 
Morale Incident, or Integrity Failure tables seems fitting, usually at the conclusion of 
from occurring. a quest or epic mission. The reward should 

56



The Campaign

rarely be more than a single point, though 
if the players have blown through all their Unity Colonial Security Internal Review
resources, 2-3 points is fine. Remember, it Nadir-Kensington-78E
is easier to offer another point later than to “Despite the lack of major power influence, the 
realize you were too generous and they now region is not devoid of sapient life. A number of 
have far too many. pirate and warlord groups have sought refuge 

in the region, and raids on colonies and orbital 
The Lanse-effect platforms are increasingly common. Assets from 

the 27th Reserve fleet have been directed to 
If you make a change that makes life more intervene but without significant reinforcements 
difficult for yourself, such as a more dangerous this is unlikely to achieve anything but a morale 
environment or a super-tough boss monster, boost to the current established colonies.
you do not have to pay for the privilege. As discussed in the security briefing, all 

expeditions are accompanied by an enhanced 
Final Review Unity security team to safeguard the investment 
When you have everything else in place, do a in the colony assets. Another key priority is to 
last check that you have gotten everything right prevent nuclear or plasma reactors from falling 
and that you are happy with the characters you into the hands of unsanctioned groups. If 
have, then dive into your first campaign turn. technologies of Grade 3 or above are discovered, 

this should be reported. 
Proceed to page 58 to begin the adventure! Some adversaries are previously colonists. 

Whether they have “gone nomad”, are reacting 
to the intrusion of new arrivals, or are defectors 
from existing colonies who have turned to radical 
actions, they represent tactical challenges.  
Sec-Ops are developing plans to dissuade 
existing colonists from following the same 
course, but a more wide-ranging plan is needed 
to deal with the risk to ongoing operations.
Sec-Ops refer to all of the above as “Tactical 
Enemies”: humanoid foes that use technology 
and function in a similar manner to standard 
opponents. Success for any colony will require 
engaging these foes in open combat and 
eventually knocking out their Strongpoints to 
eliminate their presence. We are recommending 
colony administrators treat security as a priority 
during their expansion phase.”

57



The Campaign

Campaign Turn Sequence
The campaign game is played as a series 
of turns. Each of these is divided into the BATTLE STEPS
