Introduction

We Call It Home
Until it’s been categorized by the Unity The scientists reckon they’re psionic, but not 
Bureaucracy, the correct designation is X-835 intelligent, but you could have fooled me. At 
Prime but, since we’re here and we have to  least they keep our security troopers busy (or 
call it something, we’re calling it ‘Home’.  just trigger-happy?) It keeps them getting into 
It’s aspirational, at least. other trouble of one kind or another.
It doesn’t always feel like home. That wildlife The landscape is quite something. There’s a 
is aggressive – large, dangerous animals mountain range out west that we’re going 
like you’ve never seen. You remember those to scout soon – scans are showing exotic 
instructional videos when you join the colonist minerals. It’s oddly symmetrical, though, and 
programs? Yeah, nothing like that. There’s late at night the sun plays on something in the 
razor-fanged rats the size of dogs that teleport atmosphere and the cliffsides radiate purple 
up on you and there’s lizards – or something light. You could call it romantic, but it does 
like lizards, but too spindly – that make you make people look a little strange. And those 
nervous, but only when they see you and freeze. lizards? Near-invisible in it.

Test Media Report
UnityComms Archive 37-D-Kensington
“As far as you can see, beautiful vistas which 
these hard-working colonists will be turning 
into their very own corner of our incredible 
Unity family! Imagine the fruits of your hard 
work, as you build your new home in one of 
the worlds of the Promise! These worlds are not 
just new colonies but, thanks to the abundance 
of ruins and ancient sites, provide countless 
opportunities for funding from Unity Research 
grants. This isn’t merely build-to-survive, you’ll 
be able to fund your colony from R&D and, 
thanks to the Unity Guarantee, your own share 
in any found technologies! Your children 
will grow up knowing their world will deliver 
countless benefits for the Unity family.”



Introduction

Sorry about the background noise. Supply day. shovel it away. You can build on it, but we 
That’s a Unity Auto Shuttles coming down. As max the filters keeping the dust out. It’s not so 
you know, the system mostly runs on autopilot: dangerous, but unpleasant to breathe in, so 
We just load anything we want to meet our enviro-suits or filter mask. You get used to that, 
quotas and every few weeks another one arrives but the combination of the suit and that purple 
with supplies. We’re not quite self-sufficient yet, light throws your aim off. Hopefully nobody’s 
though Admin says it’s only a matter of months. relying on my pistol skills.
Soil here’s the most fertile I’ve ever seen, even 
in places you wouldn’t believe. The ground is I hope you see this place someday. The 
covered in a thin layer that looks like sand, but it assignment procedure’s tough but get your 
contains a ton of nutrients for plant growth. We grades and maybe you can be a scout too. If you 
are getting growth rates of about 115% of Unity- finish in the top 5%, you get to pick your first 
Standard rates and that’s on an average day. deployment. 

What’s strange is the stuff seems to replenish Salut to the folks. I hope they’re finally proud 
itself. We don’t know how. The top layer seems of me. I named a rock after the old farm on 
to regenerate after a few days even if you Rupprecht III. 

7



Introduction

An Introduction 
for NEW SETTLERS

Welcome to the Unity Colonization Program! There are unknown dangers, ancient 
Congratulations on passing your Unity Ops mysteries, dangerous new lifeforms, but huge 
FDC2 course – you are now promoted to opportunities to discover the secrets of your 
Colony Administrator. For your first assignment world and forge a future for your settlers!
we have a priority colony expedition heading You will need to be creative, decisive, and 
to one of the worlds in the Kensington Reach. occasionally lucky, but the journey ahead of you 
Please see the mission dossier below for will be filled with amazing moments!
full details, and make it quick – the ship is 
leaving in 3 hours! Adventure Wargaming
In Planetfall, you lead a crew tasked with Planetfall is part of a new breed of miniatures 
helping a colony grow and survive on a games we call Adventure Wargames, 
dangerous and exciting new world. This is a intended to be played solo, co-operatively, 
prime colonization target, not just because or with a Gamemaster. These are campaign 
of the rich resources, but because of the games that create exciting stories as you play 
wreckage and ruins littered across them.  with randomly generated content to make 

each play session unpredictable. As your game 
develops in a procedural way, the story evolves 

New around Here? with the results. 
As many players will be coming here from The rules are written to be played “out of the 
other Five Parsecs from Home games, this brief box”, meaning this book tells you everything 
introduction leads quickly into creating your you need to know to set up and play the game.
colony crew (page 14) and combat rules 
(page 28). However, if this is your first time You may find that the combat rules are a little 
playing a Five Parsecs game, we’ve included simpler than in many other science fiction 
plenty of help in the appendices. miniatures games. This is intentional as the 

game is typically played by a single player who 
An overview of the Unified Space setting can be must manage every aspect of the game.
found on page 180. If you want to play cooperatively, simply split 
If you need to know more about how Adventure the characters between you for each mission. 
Wargames differ from role-playing games or You may also decide to split the campaign 
wargames, see page 176. responsibilities so, for example, one player 
If you are completely new to tabletop gaming, manages construction of the colony while the 
and need to know more about dice and other handles research. If you prefer playing 
miniatures, go to page 174 of the Appendices with a Game Master, this is discussed in the 
before diving in with the main rules. (Even if you Appendices (see page 185).
are used to the tabletop gaming conventions, 
but not 5X gaming, it’s worth checking that same 
appendix for how we randomize directions, 
calculate measurements and miniature 
movement, and how to establish Line of Sight 
and Cover in this specific game.)

8



Introduction

Unified Space, Unified Gaming a Five Parsecs from Home: Tactics campaign, 
Planetfall builds on the Five Parsecs from and so on. As you play multiple games, you will 
Home series of games, including Five Parsecs have a vibrant, living universe where connected 
from Home: Bug Hunt and Five Parsecs from events can influence each other.  
Home: Tactics. While there are small changes to 
reflect particular environments and characters, Feedback
the core game rules are all compatible, and 
once you know how to play one game, you can If you want to contact the author with 
easily pick up another in the series. questions, suggestions, or ideas, you are 

welcome to do so at nordicweaselgames@
The games are all set within a setting known icloud.com 
as Unified Space, described in each rulebook 
(see page 180). You are welcome to modify You can keep up with thoughts, musings, 
the setting to your own needs or to substitute a and game ideas at https://nordicweasel.
game world of your own. posthaven.com/ 

You can move characters between Five Parsecs You can check out other exciting Modiphius 
games, allowing you to build the ultimate games online at www.modiphius.net.
space adventure. You may carry over a favorite 
character from Five Parsecs from Home into 
Planetfall, only to decide that your story here 
should end with a huge war transitioning into 

9



Introduction

Gameplay Overview

The Campaign Turn To work through character creation for your 
Your Planetfall campaign will stretch over colony crew, turn to page 14.
multiple campaign turns. ◆	 For the Combat Rules, turn to page 28.
Each turn, you will generate random ◆	 For your newly arrived colonists’ first 
events and make decisions, then resolve missions, play out the Planetfall section, 
the consequences of those decisions and page 44.
events, such as your characters progressing in 
experience and gaining new equipment (or ◆	 To generate new scenarios for your colonists, 
getting injured and killed, if you are less lucky). you’ll need the Missions section, page 110.

Each campaign turn features a tactical game, a ◆	 For all missions, set up your game table first 
tabletop battle played using miniatures, where using the Battlefield Setup, page 138.
your colonists explore the world around them The Enemies
and interact with dangerous lifeforms! The new world you have landed on is full of 
The campaign has a grand goal at the end of hostile lifeforms! As the campaign progresses, 
