Generating Lifeforms Step 1: Mobility
When you have a Lifeform encounter, roll D100 This table determines the ability of the 
on the Campaign Lifeform Encounters table on creature to move.
your Colony Tracking Sheet (see page 190). If Mobility table
the entry is filled, you encounter that Lifeform.

D100 MOVEMENT
If the entry is blank, proceed to generate a new 
Lifeform and enter its data into the encounter 01-25 5” movement speed
table. Going forward, every roll of that entry 26-80 6” movement speed
produces the same type of creature. 81-00 7” movement speed
As your campaign progresses, you will have a 
unique encounter table that is specific to your If the roll ends in a 0 or 5 (for example, 25), 
gaming world. the creature is Partially Airborne and may 
Roll D100 on each of the tables in turn and ignore terrain as it moves.
note the results on the Campaign Lifeform When moving over any terrain feature, the 
Encounters table. Name the creatures as you airborne creature is assumed to hover over 
generate them. An example Campaign Lifeform the feature. It can be seen and shot at, as 
Encounters table is shown below. if it was 1” above the terrain feature. (Treat 
If you encounter 6 or more Lifeforms during a Forests as being 6” tall.)
mission, the 6th one encountered during the While hovering, all shots at the creature receive 
mission will be a pack leader. Add +2 KP to +1 to hit.
their normal profile. 

Campaign Lifeform Encounters table (example)

D100 NO. ENTRY

01-18 1 Nickname ‘Turbostone’: Speed 7", Combat +1, Melee +1 Damage, 
Toughness 5

19-32 2 
 

33-44 3 Nickname ‘Vaportrail’: Speed 7", Combat +1, Melee +1 Damage, 
Toughness 4, 1 KP, Special: Overpower, Hinder

45-54 4 

55-64 5 
 

65-73 6 Nickname ‘Sirenspine’: Speed 5", Combat +1, Toughness 4,  
Armor Saving Throw 5+, Special: Shoot, Pull

74-82 7 
 

83-89 8 Nickname ‘Golem’: Speed 6", Combat +2, Melee +0 Damage, 
Toughness 5, Armor Saving Throw 5+, Special: Terror

90-95 9 

96-00 10 

146



Battlefield Setup

Step 2: Offensive Abilities Step 3: Defensive Abilities
This table determines any offensive capabilities. This table establishes any defensive measures 
Note: all Lifeforms have claws, fangs or similar the creature has.
which count as Melee weapons when Brawling. 
The damage value is determined below. D100 TOUGH. ADDITIONAL 

NOTES

You need to roll on the following two tables, 01-25 4 –
initially, to determine the creature’s Combat 

26-35 4 Armor Saving Throw 
Skill and Strike Power. of 5+
If either roll ends in a 0 or a 5, the creature Dodge: The creature can 
has a Special Attack as well, which is rolled evade any hit on a D6 
separately. 36-45 3 roll of a 6, even if the 

attack would normally 
If both rolls end in a 0 or a 5, the creature rolls negate Saving Throws.
twice for Special Attacks. Ignore a duplicate 
result on the Special Attacks table and count it 46-65 4 1 KP
as no additional attack. 66-80 5 –

81-90 5 Armor Saving Throw 
Combat Skill table of 5+

D100 COMBAT SKILL 91-00 5 1 KP
01-25 +0
26-85 +1 Step 4: Unique Abilities
86-00 +2 The final D100 roll (see table, page 148) 

determines if the creature has any unique 
Strike Power table abilities.

D100 STRIKE POWER
If it does, randomly pick one creature at the 

01-20 Melee, +0 Damage start of each enemy phase. The ability activates 
21-85 Melee, +1 Damage from that creature. This means that while only 
86-00 Melee, +2 Damage a single creature is on the table, it will always 

activate its ability.
Special Attacks table

D100 SPECIAL 
ATTACKS DESCRIPTION

01-15 Razor Claws Melee attacks negate Saving Throws.

16-30 When the creature activates, roll D6 to hit every character within 6” and  
Eruption Line of Sight. On 6, they take a Damage +0 hit, and are knocked Sprawling.

The creature has a ranged attack (spike throwing, psionic wave etc.). 
31-50 Shoot Range 18”, Damage 1. On a natural 6 to hit, it may shoot again. Shooting 

creatures use their Combat Skill when shooting and count as +0 when brawling.

51-70 The creature can spit acid or poison. Range 9”. The target and every figure 
Spit within 1” is hit on a D6 roll of 5-6. Damage +0. Ignores Armor.

71-85 A character that is hit but survives is thrown 1D6” backwards. 
Overpower If the creature also has a ranged attack, this applies to the ranged attack ONLY. 

86-00 When the creature initiates brawling, it rolls twice and picks the best die. 
Ferocity This bonus does not apply if one of your characters moves to engage it. 

147



Battlefield Setup

Unique Ability table 

D100 UNIQUE 
ABILITY DESCRIPTION

01-30 None No special abilities of any kind.
The closest character in sight is pulled 1D6” closer. If this pulls them into contact, 

31-40 Pull brawl immediately. If the Lifeform inflicts any hits, they are resolved with 
+2 Damage (in place of any normal attack capability the Lifeform has).
The Lifeform jumps 1D6+1” towards the nearest character. It will clear 

41-50 Jump Human-height obstacles and if the jump takes it into or past an enemy, 
they are knocked Sprawling (see page 38).

51-55 Teleports to a location 2D6” away in a random direction. If it would teleport off 
Teleport the table, replace the figure with a blip at the battlefield edge.

56-60 All characters within 6” and Line of Sight must roll 1D6+Savvy. 
Paralyze If they fail to score a 4+, they cannot act next time they are activated.

61-70 All characters within 6” and Line of Sight must roll 1D6+Savvy. 
Terror If they fail to score a 5+, they retreat 1D6+Speed” and become Stunned.

The closest character must roll 1D6+Savvy. If they fail to score 6+, 
71-80 Confuse they immediately take a full move in a random direction. 

If they move off the table, they cannot return during the battle.
81-90 Hinder All characters within 8” have their movement halved next time they activate.
91-00 Knock Down Roll 1D6. Any characters within this range in inches are knocked Sprawling.

Lifeform Miniatures Generating Tactical Enemies
Some players may prefer to plan their miniatures Use the Tactical Enemies Table to determine 
selection, purchasing and painting in advance. If Tactical Enemy profiles. When a campaign 
this is the case, you can roll up multiple (or even begins, you will face three such enemies, each 
all of) the Lifeforms in advance and use the rolls generated from this table. You can choose 
to help decide what figures to use to roll for each enemy as they appear in the 

campaign or roll upfront so you can plan your 
The Lifeforms are described here only in terms miniatures purchasing or painting in advance.
of their tabletop abilities and traits. You are 
completely free to select any figures you would You may encounter the same enemy more than 
like to represent them on the table. You may look once, representing either rival groups or a foe 
at the profiles and try to choose based on that, present in strength. (If you prefer more variety, 
though you can interpret things as you see fit. reroll until you have three different foes.) 

If you have creatures with similar profiles or Number: Use the roll indicated to determine 
abilities, they might be interpreted as similar how many enemies you are facing. Note that 
creatures just as our world has different breeds some missions may modify this.
of sharks. Alternatively, you may find it more ◆	 One is always a specialist.
interesting to have every creature be distinct. 
To save work, you could rely on the fact that two ◆	 If there are 6 or more, one of them will be a 
sub-species of the Agarion Crawler look identical, leader (see sidebar, page 149).
despite some key biological differences! ◆	 All others are grunts.

148



Battlefield Setup

Speed: The movement rate in inches.
Combat Skill: If this is listed as a split value, Leaders
the first value is used for regular enemies while If you encounter 6 or more enemies during a 
the second value is used for any leaders and mission, one of them will be a leader. Note that 
specialist figures. because of how the random generation works, 
Toughness: If this is listed as a split value the this means some enemy types will always be 
second value is used for any leader present. accompanied by a leader. Leaders are one of the 

generated figures, not an additional figure. For 
Panic: The Panic range used when making example, if you encounter 7 enemies in total 
Panic tests (see page 40). If this is 0, the enemy there will be 6 regular enemies and 1 leader.
is not subject to Panic tests and will instead 
fight to the death. Leaders have 1 KP and tend to have different 

weapons available. 
Bosses are a sub-class of leaders and are only 
present if you track one down and then play a 
Strike mission. Bosses have 2 KP and add +1 to 
both their Combat Skill and Toughness.

Tactical Enemies Table

D100 ENEMY NUMBER SPEED COMBAT 
SKILL TOUGH. PANIC

Outlaws 2D3+3 4” +0 3 1-2
All manner of bandits, thieves and raiders trying to make a living by stealing your stuff. 

01-12
Fragile discipline: If total outlaw casualties exceed 4 at the end of the turn, 

Panic range becomes 1-3.
Hostile colonists 1D3+5 4” +0 3 1 / 1-2

A rival group trying to muscle in on your claim and figuring that violence will deter you.
13-22

Variable motivation: When setting up, roll 1D6 to establish their level of determination. 
On 1-2, they will have a Panic range of 1; on 3-6, they will have a Panic range of 1-2.

Nomad patrol 1D3+5 6” +0 / +1 3 / 4 1-2
Some colonies are abandoned as the locals take to the wilderness. 

23-30 Nomad remnants often react extremely aggressively to renewed attempts.

Keen shots: Nomads firing from behind cover may reroll an initial 1 on the shooting dice.
Remnant colonists 1D6+3 4” +0 3 1-3

A prior colonization attempt here failed and the remnants have descended into barbarism.  
They aim to continue their survival through looting your resources and enslaving 

31-39 or massacring your colonists.

Blood-crazed: At the end of any battle round where Rogue colonists had figures removed 
due to Panic, the Panic range is reduced by 1 step (to 1-2, then 1, and finally 0).

Renegades 1D3+5 4” +0 3 / 4 1-2
40-49 The worst and most hardened types of outlaws. 

Mob rules: A Renegade with any allies within 2” counts as +1 to Combat Skill when brawling.

149



Battlefield Setup

D100 ENEMY NUMBER SPEED COMBAT 
SKILL TOUGH. PANIC

Pirates (Inexperienced) 1D3+6 4” +0 / +1 3 1-2
The difference between and outlaw and a pirate is that pirates have a ship.

50-61
Lack of tactics: Each Enemy Phase, roll 1D6 and count back from the closest pirate to your 

battlefield edge. The selected figure will not move, but may fire normally.
Mysterious raiders 1D3+4 5” +1 4 1

A strange group decked out in mysterious uniforms that you do not recognize. They are of a minor 
alien species from the Fringe worlds, but attempts at communication are declined.

62-71
Intense firepower: Randomly select a figure each Enemy Phase; they may fire twice. 

If they have an enemy in sight when they activate, they will remain stationary when doing so, 
otherwise they move normally and then fire twice if able. 

Pirates (Hardened) 1D3+5 5” +1 4 1
Getting to be a famous pirate means being tough enough to defeat the people 

72-78 who defeated the pirates that did not make it.

Vacc suits: 6+ Saving Throw.
Alien raiders 1D3+4 4” +0 / +1 4 1-2

A raiding party from a minor, hostile alien species known only in nearby sectors. 
79-87

Slip sideways: At the start of each Enemy Phase, the raider closest to any player figures is 
teleported 2D6” in a random direction. If they end up off-table, they do not return.

K’Erin landing party 1D3+4 4” +1 4 / 5 1
The K’Erin are a species priding themselves on never backing down from a struggle.  

88-95 Raiders, adventurers, and hostile colonists are common. 

Paramilitary: Leaders, Bosses, and Specialists have a 6+ Saving Throw. 
Champion: Leader has 2 KP as standard; Bosses have 3 KP.

Converted recon team 1D3+4 4” +1 4 0
The cybernetic creatures known as the Converted descend upon colonies to collect bodies,  

alive or dead, that can be “upgraded” into more Converted.
96-00 Fearless: Not subject to Panic checks.

Bolt-on armor: 6+ Saving Throw. 
Enhanced models: Converted Specialists have 1 KP.

Defeated Enemies
If you destroy an Enemy Strongpoint, that 
enemy type is no longer present in your 
campaign. All sectors they currently occupy 
are relinquished immediately and they will 
not return to your campaign. Congratulations, 
commander!

150



Battlefield Setup

Generating Enemy Weapons The Enemy Weapon Profiles table below 
Roll once on the Enemy Grunt Weapons provides all weapon profiles from the Tactical 
Table to determine the weapon of every enemy Enemies lists above. 
grunt in the encounter, then roll once for the 
specialist on the Enemy Specialist Weapons Enemy Weapon Traits
Table. The specialist weapon replaces the grunt Clumsy: If the opponent has higher base 
weapon for that figure. Speed, -1 brawling penalty.
Leaders carry the grunt weapon plus one roll on Critical: A natural 6 to hit inflicts 2 hits on  
the Enemy Leader Weapons Table. the target.
Note: Weapons and numbers encountered are Heavy: -1 to hit penalty if moving and firing.
generated for each battle. Melee: +2 brawling bonus as main weapon.

Pistol: +1 to brawling if used as main weapon.
Enemy Grunt Weapons Table Shockwave: A surviving target is knocked  

D6 GRUNTS 1D6” backwards.
1 Scrap gun
2 Colony rifle
3 Colony rifle + Blade

4-6 Military rifle
Enemy Leader Weapons Table

Enemy Specialist Weapons Table D6 LEADER

D6 SPECIALIST 1 Shatter axe
1-2 Auto rifle 2-3 Hand cannon
3-4 Hunting rifle 4-5 Ripper sword
5-6 Rattle gun 6 Shotgun

Enemy Weapon Profiles Table

WEAPON RANGE SHOTS DAMAGE TRAITS

Auto rifle 24” 2 0 –
Blade Brawl – 1 Melee

Colony rifle 18” 1 0 –
Hand cannon 6” 1 2 Pistol
Hunting rifle 30” 1 1 Heavy, Critical
Military rifle 24” 1 0 –
Rattle gun 24” 3 0 Heavy

Ripper sword Brawl – 2 Melee
Scrap gun 7” 1 0 Pistol
Shatter axe Brawl – 3 Melee, Clumsy, Shockwave

Shotgun 8” 1 1 Critical

151



Battlefield Setup

The Slyn Threat Slyn exhibit intense psionic manifestations 
The Slyn appear to be the result of heavy but do not appear to access psionic wave-flows 
genetic modification and exhibit considerable the same way precursors do. As the precursor 
variation, though all are basically humanoid. method is the underpinning for almost all 
The most common version encountered is psionic institutes in known space, this is of 
reptilian in form and the prevailing theory is great interest to researchers. 
that this is the closest to whatever may have The Slyn appear to have very strong psionic 
been their original form. capability, allowing them to function even 
They do not appear to have any natural means within dampening fields, but they do not 
of reproduction, and no recorded encounter exhibit the wide range of capability that other 
has resulted in sightings of Slyn occupying sapient beings do. A Slyn with a psionic ability 
civilian roles. While Slyn landing craft have is unlikely to ever develop a second type, 
been accompanied by individuals who giving rise to the theory that their talents 
performed the roles of pilots, technicians, and may be a result of deliberate engineering, 
other specialist tasks, these also engage in biological or otherwise. 
direct combat in a manner unlike most armed In battle, Slyn operate in pairs with the two 
forces of the galactic powers. individuals linked through a strong psionic 
No indication of a “creator species” has been bond that seems to sustain them in combat. 
detected, but as the Slyn are reluctant to Unity troopers have reported individual 
communicate with outsiders, evidence has Slyn continuing to fight with missing limbs 
not been forthcoming. It is possible that the or massive bleeding as long as their linked 
current state is a result of the Slyn extensively partner is still active. Once both are injured, 
modifying themselves. the pair collapse and the life force seems to 

dissipate quickly.

152



Battlefield Setup

Slyn are tool users and, as evidenced by Slyn Encounter Sizes
their landing craft, possess a high level of Slyn encounters in normal missions will be 
technology. They possess a natural ability to either 6 or 8 individuals formed into 3 or 4 
focus energy, manifested as a high-powered pairs respectively. Roll 1D6 when setting up 
but somewhat short-ranged beam weapon, the mission:
projected from their hands. They rarely use 
conventional infantry weapons as a result. 1-4: 	You encounter 6 Slyn.

5-6: 	You encounter 8 Slyn.
Slyn Aggression Check
The Slyn attack unexpectedly but there is Slyn on the Battlefield
a pattern to their depredations, and some When deploying, Slyn are always set up in pairs 
activities seem to draw their attention. with the two figures within 1” of each other.
Each mission description will explain if it is Each pair will move in order to remain within 
subject to attack from the Slyn. If it is, follow 1” of each other. Should they be separated for 
the dice roll instructions explained in the any reason, they will try to move back in range 
mission. This is generally a 2D6 roll with a again as quickly as possible.
score within a certain range meaning you will 
fight the Slyn instead of the regular enemy When firing, pairs will always attempt to fire at 
you would have faced. the same target figure and will select a target 

visible to both if possible. If this is not possible, 
The Slyn do not maintain headquarters or they will each fire normally.
bases. While they do operate ships, it is 
unknown how they maneuver on the planet Slyn do not become Stunned for any reason. 
surface, and they can appear and disappear in They take damage as a pair: If a single casualty 
the blink of an eye. is inflicted, put a marker by the pair. They will 

continue to move and fight normally. Once 
As the Slyn do not maintain local facilities a second casualty has been inflicted (which 
or headquarters, they cannot be defeated in can happen simultaneously with a multi-shot 
the course of the campaign. Achieving one of weapon) to either figure in the pair, they are 
the End Game conditions will permit you to both destroyed and removed from play.
eliminate the threat. 

Slyn Withdrawal
Slyn Encounters Slyn are not subject to Panic tests. They will 
There is not a distinct Slyn encounter table. withdraw when only a single pair is left on 
They do not have leaders or special weapon the table at the end of a battle round. The 
troopers, and all Slyn soldiers use the same remaining Slyn vanish without a trace. 
profile and are subject to the rules explained in 
this section. Slyn Short Range Distortion
Speed:	 5” The Slyn can move using close distance 
Combat Skill:	 +1 teleportation. At the start of each Enemy Phase, 
Toughness:	 4 randomly select a Slyn pair and move them 
Brawling:	 Claws: Melee, Damage 1. 2D6” in a random direction.
Ranged Attack:	 Beam focus: 18” range,  If this would take them off the battlefield 

Shots 1, Damage 1. edge, they are removed from the table (which 
can result in withdrawal at the end of the 
round). At the start of the next Enemy Phase, 
the pair reappears 2D6” from the center of the 

153



Battlefield Setup

table instead. This counts as the teleport for The Sleepers
this round. As you explore ancient alien ruins, you will 
Slyn can move and fight normally after a come across the defenders that were once set to 
teleport. It does NOT replace their normal keep intruders out. While their systems are in 
movement. poor states of repair, the fact they still function 
Slyn that emerge within 1” of an opponent will after several thousand years is a testament to 
emerge directly into brawling combat. If they the technology involved in creating them.
win, the figure cannot take any other actions Troopers have nicknamed these robots 
this round. ‘Sleepers’ as they seem to activate only when 

near an organic presence.

Using the Slyn in 5PFH Sleepers use the following profile. They do 
not distinguish between types: All Sleepers 

The Slyn can be used in games of Five Parsecs encountered in a mission are identical.
from Home. Substitute any one entry on one of 
the encounter tables for the Slyn. Their weapons Speed:	 5”
and abilities should not require modification. Combat Skill:	 +1

Toughness: 	 4
◆	 If the Slyn withdraw from a battle, you have 

Held the Field. Sleepers have a directional force screen, 
granting them a 6+ Saving Throw against all 

◆	 The Slyn cannot become Rivals of your crew. weapons fire, including weapons that would 
normally negate Saving Throws. They do not 

◆	 As they are usually on the attack, they cannot 
be the defenders in Stealth missions, nor are receive this protection against Brawling hits, 
they encountered in the hordes suggested by however. 
the Bug Hunt rules. When each Sleeper is placed on the table, roll 

1D6 to determine what weapon it is carrying:

D6 SLEEPER WEAPON 
WEAPON STATISTICS

1-5 Beam weapon Range 12”, Shots 1, 
Damage 1.

6 Heavy beam Range 18”, Shots 2, 
weapon Damage 1.

Sleepers cannot be Stunned and are 
Fearless, immune to Panic. 

A Sleeper that scores a hit when firing 
immediately enters Rapid Fire mode: On its 
next activation, it will not move but will fire 
with 1 additional shot (2 for a Beam, 3 for a 
Heavy beam). If no targets are visible, it leaves 
Rapid Fire mode but does not otherwise move 
or act. If it has targets, it remains in Rapid Fire 
mode. A suitable counter can be placed next to 
the figure to remind you.

154



Campaign 
Development
	 The Milestone System 156
	 Calamities 165
	 Mission Data 169
	 “Patterns” 172

155



Campaign Development

The Milestone System
A campaign can continue as long as you like. The Campaign Story Track
However, the pressures of declining Colony 
Morale will push you towards crisis points. As you progress through the campaign, for 
To complete the campaign, you need to pick every Milestone completed:
the path forward and to be able to do so, you ◆	 Roll a Lifeform Evolution (page 158); and
must achieve a number of Milestones during 
the campaign. ◆	 You may recruit one additional 

replacement for your roster.
These can be earned from several sources, 
including the construction of Buildings and In addition, particular events will happen as 
particular Research topics. Each Milestone indicated below. These occur immediately upon 
represents a new stage in the development achieving that Milestone:
of the colony. In total, 7 Milestones must be 
achieved to set up the End Game. 1st Milestone Achieved
As you achieve each Milestone, particular ◆	 Roll 2 Character Events immediately (see 
effects take place in the campaign game, page 170). This is in addition to the normal 
explained below. event you would receive each turn.

Note: It does not matter which Milestones you ◆	 Add 1 point of Mission Data and check for 
achieve: The game includes more than you Mission Data progress (see page 169).
need to finish the game and the particular ones ◆	 Add 1 Calamity Point and check for 
you chose are part of your story but do not have Calamity progress (see page 165).
a mechanical effect (though they may guide 
which ending you want to achieve). ◆	 One Tactical Enemy emerges. Randomly 

select a map sector and mark that the enemy 
now controls it. This cannot be in or adjacent 

Tech that Grants Milestones to your colony.

The following Buildings grant a Milestone: 2nd Milestone Achieved
◆	 Galactic comms relay ◆	 Immediately roll for a Colony Event (see 
◆	 Orbital facility page 62). This is in addition to the normal 
◆	 Genetic adaptation facility event you would receive each turn.
◆	 Terraforming control centre

◆	 Every enemy on the map expands to occupy 
The following Augmentation grants a Milestone: a random map sector adjacent to them.
◆	 Mental links ◆	 You obtain 1 Ancient Sign (see page 61). 
The following Alien Artifact grants a Milestone: ◆	 Add 1 point of Mission Data and check for 

Mission Data progress (see page 169).
◆	 Neo-ancient data cache
The following Research Applications grant a ◆	 Add 2 Calamity Points and check for 
Milestone: Calamity progress (see page 165).

◆	 One Tactical Enemy emerges. Randomly 
◆	 Frontier world doctrines
◆	 Integrated post-organic demarcation select a map sector and mark that they now 
◆	 Psionic personality integration control it. This cannot be in or adjacent to a 

sector held by another enemy or your colony.

156



Campaign Development

3rd Milestone Achieved 4th Milestone Achieved
◆	 Gain 3 Story Points. ◆	 Erase one campaign battlefield condition 

from the table on your Colony Tracking  
◆	 Increase Colony Integrity by +1. Sheet and generate a new condition to 
◆	 Immediately roll on the Enemy Activity take its place.

table (see page 62). This is in addition to the 
◆	

normal event you would receive each turn. You receive 1 Augmentation Point.
◆	 You may add 2 grunts to your list.

◆	 From this point onwards, Tactical Enemies 
reduce their Panic range by 1. All tactical ◆	 Add 1 point of Mission Data and check for 
specialists receive 1 KP. Mission Data progress (see page 169).

◆	 Add 2 points of Mission Data and check for ◆	 Add 1 Calamity Point and check for 
Mission Data progress (see page 169). Calamity progress (see page 165).

◆	 Add 2 Calamity Points and check for ◆	 Track how many times you beat the Slyn 
Calamity progress (see page 165). from this point onwards. Each time you do, 

roll 2D6 and, if the roll is equal to or below 
◆	 One Tactical Enemy emerges. Randomly 

select a map sector and mark that the the tracked victories, the Slyn decide to leave 
enemy now controls it. This cannot be in or you alone. They will no longer attack for the 
adjacent to your colony or a sector held by rest of this campaign. Victories prior to this 
another enemy. point are not counted.

157



Campaign Development

7th Milestone Achieved
◆	 The End Game now launches. See page 160 

for how to proceed.
◆	 Add 2 points of Mission Data and check 

for Mission Data progress (see page 169).
◆	 Add 1 Calamity Point and check for 

Calamity progress (see page 165). If no 
Calamity occurs, you no longer have to 
contend with Calamities in the campaign.

Lifeform Evolutions
As your colonists acclimate to the world, so it 
seems to become acclimated to you. Scouts 
report the planet’s resident lifeforms adapting 
more rapidly, often for the worse, exhibiting 
new methods of attack and defense when 
encountered.
The scientists suspect this may be an 

5th Milestone Achieved engineered defensive mechanism, though 
◆	 You receive 1 Augmentation Point. this leaves the question of how it was created 

and by who. The process seems random in 
◆	 Add 1 point of Mission Data and check for nature but occurs both much faster and in 

Mission Data progress (see page 169). a more direct fashion than what is normally 
◆	 Add 2 Calamity Points and check for understood as “evolution”. (The grunts in the 

Calamity progress (see page 165). field insist on calling it that, despite the science 
team’s protestations. As is often the case, such 
terms stick around even if people know better.) 

6th Milestone Achieved
◆	 All Tactical Enemy encounters add  Evolutions occur each time you achieve a 

1 additional specialist figure to the campaign Milestone. Randomly select an entry 
number encountered. on your Colony Tracking Sheet to evolve. If 

your roll selects an entry that has not yet been 
◆	 For each turn of the rest of the campaign, filled, put a note on the encounter table. When 

roll on the Enemy Activity table (see  you fill this entry, the creature will already be 
page 62) for every enemy on the map. evolved and should roll on the table below after 

◆	 Add 2 points of Mission Data and check determining the basic profile and abilities. 
for Mission Data progress (see page 169). Once an evolution has occurred, all future 

◆	 Add 2 Calamity Points and check for encounters with the creature will feature the 
Calamity progress (see page 165). improved profile or abilities. 

Roll D100 for the evolution. It is possible for 
the same Lifeform to be selected multiple times 
in a campaign, though exact duplicates require 
a reroll of the evolution. For example, the same 
Lifeform cannot develop Summoning twice. 

158



Campaign Development

Lifeform Evolution table

D100 EVOLUTION DESCRIPTION

01-10 Enhanced Profile The creatures become more adapted to your specific combat methods. 

If the Lifeform would normally have a Combat Skill of +0, it is raised to 
+1. This includes reduced Combat Skills for Lifeforms capable of shooting.

Add +1” to Speed.
If the creature has a Strike Power of +0 damage, it is raised to +1.

11-20 Poison All of the creature’s attack forms apply a slow-acting nerve toxin.

Any character struck by the creature receives a Poison marker per hit. 
When the character activates, roll 1D6 for each Poison marker. If any of 

them result in a natural 6, the character becomes a casualty. If they do not, 
remove ONE Poison marker.

A scientist within 2” can attempt to help by spending their action and 
rolling 6+ on a 1D6+Savvy test. This removes one Poison marker.

21-30 Spines The creature becomes covered in sharp spikes.

Any character that loses a brawl against the creature takes 
an additional hit at +0 Damage. 

31-40 Duplication Through a psionic manifestation, the Lifeform is capable is reproducing 
spontaneously and immediately. 

At the start of each Enemy Phase, roll 1D6. If the roll is a 6, a random 
Lifeform duplicates. Place a second Lifeform adjacent to it. This ability does 

not activate if only Contacts are present on the table. 
41-50 Dramatic The creatures are changing rapidly in an unpredictable fashion

transformations Delete any Unique Ability the Lifeform lists on the Unique Abilities table 
(page 148). Instead, each battle where the creature is encountered, 

roll on the Unique Abilities table again and use the 
indicated ability during that battle.

51-60 Summoning The creatures emit a strange call that attracts more of them 
to the battlefield. 

At the start of each Enemy Phase, roll 1D6. If the roll is a 6, 
place a Contact on a random table edge.

This ability does not activate if no Contacts are present on the table.
61-70 Evasion Whether due to agility, chemical fog or psionic effects, the creatures 

are becoming difficult to target.

Each time a creature is fired upon, roll a D6. On a 6, it evades and is 
not hit. A creature that evades remains unable to be hit for the rest of the 

current battle round. If a creature evades in the Quick Actions Phase, 
it cannot attack when it activates in that Enemy Phase. 

Evading creatures can be hit by brawling attacks but cannot 
initiate it themselves.

159



Campaign Development

D100 EVOLUTION DESCRIPTION

71-80 Darts The Lifeform can now launch razor-tipped darts at nearby opponents.

Each creature will launch a dart at the end of its activation after all of its 
attacks and brawls have taken place. Darts have Range 9”, target the 

closest opponent visible, hit on a D6 roll of a 6, and inflict a 
Damage +0 hit. 

81-90 Bigger Leaders There are more pack leaders, and they are getting bigger as well.

The 4th Lifeform encountered in a mission is now a secondary leader with 
+1 KP. The 6th Lifeform encountered in a mission is a pack leader as 

usual. They receive +3 KP instead of the customary +2.
91-00 Tougher Specimens The creatures are getting bigger and meaner.

Each time a Lifeform is placed on the table, roll a D6. On 5-6. it has +1 KP.

The End Game counting any bots or grunts), plus an additional 
Upon achieving the Final Milestone, the die to represent the general population.
characters on your roster will meet to debate You may select freely from opinions that are 
what course the colony should take. The supported. Any opinion that does not have 
summit takes place at the end of the current support from any character or the general 
campaign turn and cannot be delayed. population cannot be selected. Having dealt 

with colony security (see below), progress to 
The Summit the appropriate selection in ‘Final Milestones’ 
Everyone knows that a moment of decision (page 161).
has been reached. Conversations have been 
had, and predictions have been run. It is time Colony Security
to bring it out into the open. You summon Once the summit has taken place, you must 
your most trusted companions and advisors to establish colony security before you can make 
discuss the fate of the colony. final preparations. 
Each character on your roster voices or supports The Ascension, Isolation, and Independence 
an opinion on which path to pursue. Roll a D6 options require defeating at least one Tactical 
on the table below for each character (not Enemy by tracking down and destroying 

Summit Result table

D6 OPINION ARGUMENT

1 Independence “This colony is strong enough to survive alone. We don’t need Unity anymore.”
“Through research, we have become more than we were. We now have a 

2 Ascension path to a more advanced state of being, to evolve towards a new, 
unprecedented future.”

3 Loyalty “This colony has achieved its objectives and so much more. It is time to take our 
rightful place as a fully-fledged member of the Unity polity.”

4 Isolation “We are becoming one with this world. It is time for us to fulfil that destiny, to 
abandon the constraints of the colony and seek out the wilderness.”

5-6 No opinion “We are capable of achieving whichever path we choose.”

160



Campaign Development

their Strongpoint, while Loyalty requires 
defeating two of them in this way. If you have Campaign Play
previously achieved this, you already meet 
the requirement. If you wish to incorporate your world into a 

Five Parsecs from Home campaign, roll twice 
Once your colony is secure, you can then on the World Trait table and apply both results. 
proceed to construct the final milestone. Worlds that underwent a war are subject to the 

Fringeworld Strife rules (5PFH Compendium, 
Final Milestones page.148), if you use that option.

The cost of the final milestone must be paid in 
both Build Points and Research Points. 

2D6 UNITY RESPONSE

Independence Total war. Unity decides to make 
(Cost: 15 BP, 5 RP) an example of you. The colony is 

2 obliterated unless you developed the 
With the colony set on a path of independence, Artificial Construction Mission Data 
you order the large-scale construction of Breakthrough. If so, you must go to 
defenses and issue a proclamation that War instead (see below).
the world is now independent and will no 
longer accept the dictates of a remote and 3-7 War. Unity responds with military force. 
unaccountable government. See the “War” sidebar.

Negotiations drag on. Roll again on 
You may end the campaign as a victory here. this table. Any result of an 8 is counted 
After all, it is your story, and you may have an 8-10 as “War” (above) while any roll of 
idea for how it ought to end. Narrate your story 10 is counted as Unity granting you 
as you see fit. “Recognized status” (below).
If you prefer, you may work through the Recognized status. After hearing your 
outcomes below instead: Roll 2D6 to pleas, the Unity Bureaucracy grant your 
determine the Unity response. 11-12 request and offer semi-autonomous 
If you developed the Defense Network status. Your colony will go on to become 
Mission Data Breakthrough, add +1 to rolls an independent, Unity-Allied world. 
on this table unless the dice show a double. Congratulations.

War On a draw, one random character on your 
A single colony cannot hope to defeat the might roster is killed in the fighting, and you roll 
of the Unity armies, but you may be able to again. If you developed the Warzone Mission 
outlast them in a colonial struggle. The war is Data Breakthrough, Unity also takes 1 War 
fought in a number of rounds during each of Fatigue on a draw.
which you will roll 1D6 for your colony and 1D6 If a side accumulates a total of 3 War Fatigue, 
for the Unity expeditionary force. they surrender. If Unity surrenders, you are 
Each round, the side with the lowest score now independent! If your colony surrenders, 
suffers 1 level of War Fatigue. it is incorporated into Unity forcefully. Every 

character on your roster may roll a 5+ on 1D6 
to escape, but are otherwise arrested. 

161



Campaign Development
