
135



Missions

D100 ARTIFACT D100 ARTIFACT

27-30 Alien translation guide (Single-Use) 64-67 Predictive sighting module (Equipment)
The next two research topics have their The character may reroll all 1s on to hit 

Research Point cost halved, rounded up. dice when firing.
31-34 Bio-present induction schematic  68-71 Bio-frame optimization serum 

(Single-Use) (Single-Use)
Gain 3 Augmentation Points. When activated, permanently increase 

35-37 Nervous system override cathode one character’s Toughness by +1.
(Equipment) 72-75 Transcendence blueprints (Single-Use)

The character increases their base Move When activated, increase 
and Dash distances by +1” each. Colony Morale by +4 and gain 

38-40 Phase anticipation sword (Equipment) +1 Augmentation Points.
Weapon: Damage 2, Melee. The 76-79 Time dilution serum (Single-Use)

character does not suffer a penalty when When activated, permanently increase 
rolling a 1 during a brawl. one character’s Speed by +1".

41-44 Programmed restoration settlement 80-82 Shard projection rifle (Equipment)
module (Single-Use) Weapon: Range 24”, Shots 2, 

When activated, restore up to 10 points Damage 2, Focus (both shots must 
of Colony Integrity. target the same figure)

45-47 Regenerative building material 83-85 Crystalline assault harness (Equipment)
schematic (Colony Item) The character receives a 

Mitigate 1 point of building damage 5+ Armor Saving Throw. 
per campaign turn. When brawling, they may roll twice  

48-50 Psi-boosted nano-blade (Equipment) and pick the best score.
Weapon: Damage 2, Melee. 86-88 Focused beam emitter (Equipment)

Ignores Saving Throws. Weapon: Range 18”, Shots 1,  
51-53 Ancient language translation aid Damage 4

(Single-Use) 89-92 Organic pattern booster (Single-Use)
Gain 3 Story Points and 1 Mission Data. A character that just died can be 

54-56 Visual Distortion Module (Equipment) restored to life.
All ranged attacks targeting the character 93-96 Sub-psionic visor (Equipment)

take a -1 hit penalty. Character may extend all visibility 
57-59 Flexible bolt launcher (Equipment) penalties by 4”.

Weapon: Range 8”, Shots 2, Damage 1 97-00 Mind induction device (Single-Use)
OR A character immediately gains 5 XP. 

Range 24”, Shots 1, Damage 2. Gain 1 Mission Data.
Pick which version is used each time the Melee: A character carrying a Melee weapon 

character shoots. Artifact can use it in place of a Pistol. They 
60-63 Neo-ancient data cache (Single-Use) receive a +2 brawling bonus when using the 

When activated, this counts as Melee weapon.
completing a campaign Milestone.

136



Missions

Uncertain Terrain Features 
(optional rule)

The ambient features of the world often Uncertain features cannot be fired across, 
interfere with accurate scans and you may not though enemies can move into and across the 
have a clear picture of the battlefield ahead. area as if it was open ground until revealed. If 
For a more unpredictable battlefield, use this your table is crowded, it may be difficult to fit 
option to place several so-far-undetermined Uncertain features in the spaces available. If so, 
terrain features on the table. The Mission reduce the footprint to whatever size will fit.
Briefings (see page 114) explain the suitability 
of this option. If the mission allows the use of Revealing Uncertain Features
Uncertain terrain features, it will instruct you on 
how many to place during setup. Check for Uncertain terrain features at the end 

of each battle round. For any feature within 9” 
Uncertain features are assumed to cover a circle of any crew members or within 18” and in  
of roughly 3” diameter. They can be indicated Line of Sight, roll D100 on the table below. 
with a marker or by cutting out a piece of paper 
of 3” diameter or similar. Place the Uncertain Replace the marker with a suitable terrain piece 
features as you would any other terrain feature, and treat it as the listed terrain thereafter. You 
making sure to leave some space around them. can adjust the size and shape of the feature to 

match terrain you have available. 
Uncertain Features table

D100 UNCERTAIN 
FEATURE DESCRIPTION

01-15 Plant growths These plants do not inhibit movement, but figures within the feature 
count as being in cover.

16-30 Cluster of scatter 
terrain 3-5 pieces of Scatter (see page 37)

31-45 Heavy growth An Area terrain feature that provides cover. Example: Forest. (See page 36)

46-50 Heavy growth An Area terrain feature that provides cover. 
(concerning) If the mission uses Contacts, place one marker in the center.

51-55 Heavy growth An Area terrain feature that provides cover. 
(promising) If a squad member enters the feature, roll 1D6. On 6, roll once on the 

Post-Mission Finds table (see page 134)
56-65 Difficult going Difficult ground (see page 34); does not affect visibility. Example: Swamp.

66-70 Difficult going Difficult ground that does not affect visibility. If the mission uses Contacts, 
(concerning) place one marker in the center.

71-75 Difficult going Difficult ground that does not affect visibility. 
(promising) If a squad member enters the feature, roll 1D6. 

On 6, roll once on the Post-Mission Finds table (see page 134).

76-85 Difficult going Area feature that provides cover and acts as Difficult ground (see page 34). 
(dense) Example: Thick forest or jungle. 

86-95 High ground Hill or slope.

96-00 Terrain block Block feature (see page 139) that cannot be entered but can be climbed, 
such as boulders.

137



Battlefield Setup

Battlefield 
Setup

Preparing a Wargame Table
Whether you buy terrain kits, build your own, 3.	 Terrain gives context and visual appeal. 
or use pieces of paper, the core functionality This sounds like a soft factor that doesn’t 
of terrain is to help produce a fun and impact tactical gameplay, but it does, 
exciting game. indirectly: A table with lots of boulders 
Once the tabletop battle begins, the terrain and big rocks presents hard obstacles to 
is “locked in”. It won’t change, and any movement, requiring lots of short, sharp 
placements are going to dictate where you exchanges of fire as characters turn a corner 
can move (and how easily), and how effective and find enemies in their sights. A table that 
various units will be. is heavy on jungle and forest will tend to 

have more close quarters fighting within the 
terrain features with few areas truly off limits. 

What is the Point of Terrain? A table with a river crossing the table and 
Before we start, let’s take a moment to two established crossing points will funnel 
consider why we put terrain on our tables. the action towards those two points (or a 
There are three: firefight breaking out across the river as the 

two sides fire from cover). 
1.	 It channels and impedes movement. 

When you have terrain features, troops must Do not underestimate the aesthetic value 
move around or through the features, some of visuals on your overall experience, either. 
of which will prevent certain routes. Always A miniatures game is a story unfolding and 
consider what happens to those routes when the difference in feeling when you know 
the enemy is occupying one of them. that your characters are moving around alien 

foliage and strange rock formations is very 
2.	 It provides cover. Troops not only receive noticeable. While better-made terrain will 

cover protection from weapons fire but of course look better, you may be surprised 
terrain can block Lines of Sight (see  how evocative even a simple foam board 
page 35), helping to maneuver tactically ruin can be when you are slugging it out 
around the table. As a game, Planetfall is against alien mercenaries. 
lethal and troops trying to move across big 
open spaces tend to get shot to tiny bits.  
If you are to advance on an objective or try 
to get into close combat, you need terrain  
to enable that.

138



Battlefield Setup

29

Terrain Types However, excessive use of linear features can 
Terrain falls into one of four categories: result in a static experience. 

Most tables will have a mixture of these first 
◆	 Area features allow figures to shelter within 

them but are not safe from close combat three terrain types to provide a range of effects. 
attacks, as attackers can enter the feature. When used in combination, interesting things 
This makes Area features both valuable to can happen. For example, having several 
a defender who can use them for cover, smaller patches of bush (Area features) near 
while firing from a range of positions, and each other will naturally provide pathways 
to the attacker who can obtain cover while and clearings that can be navigated (or used 
advancing towards a position. as kill zones), while a Block feature with Linear 

features extending out from it can become a 
◆	 Block features can sometimes be traversed, strong focal point for a battle.

but are often Impassable, forcing gameplay 
◆	

to flow around them. They greatly affect Finally, there is Scatter terrain. These 
Lines of Sight and thus provide indirect small individual pieces serve to provide 
protection, but they are more difficult to use protection for a figure (often temporarily). 
for cover. As such they tend to direct traffic Moving from terrain to terrain feels very 
during the game, more than providing “tactical-cool” when you can make it work 
fighting positions. and having terrain being blown apart 

around you is cinematic. Don’t be afraid to 
◆	 Linear features are primarily defensive add lots of scatter. 

in nature and are of the most value in a 
firefight. They make natural defensive The ways in which these terrain types 
positions for a couple of characters with specifically affect combat is discussed in the 
long-range weapons, though they can be Shooting chapter, page 35.
outflanked, negating their use on the table. 

139



Coverage When placing terrain, using several smaller 
Miniatures games almost always benefit from features is often better than a single huge 
having a lot of terrain on the table: The game piece. This is especially true for area features 
will be more fun and enjoyable if you must like forests: A single massive forest path will not 
move around to accomplish things. play as well as replacing it with three or four 

smaller pieces arranged near each other.
Rather than dictate a norm in terms of how 
many individual pieces you need, it is more The same applies to solid features. A huge 
helpful to think of overall “coverage” of the boulder is less interesting in play than three 
table. When you are looking at the table modest-sized ones, since you can now move 
surface, you typically want at least a third of it between them, fight from corner to corner, and 
covered by terrain features and half is often a otherwise interact with the feature.
superior choice if you can manage it. This does 
not have to be exact in terms of square inches. The Theme
A cluster of scatter terrain will “cover” the area 
it encompasses, even if there is empty ground A table will almost always look better if you 
