Campaign Development

Ascension TOTAL FATE

(Cost: 5 BP, 15 RP)
1 Your colonists become a new  

Strange machines are built all over the colony as psionic sub-species
the engineers and scientists push themselves to 2-3 Your colonists join into a  
align the moment of ascension with the optimal single hivemind
planetary conditions. When the day finally 

4 Your colonists ascend to become 
comes, you give the command to begin Project: beings of pure thought
Ascension – development into a new species.

5-6 Your colonists leave for a parallel 
You may end the campaign as a victory here: dimension shaped by thoughts
Narrate a story of how it all ends and what it 
really all meant. If you prefer you can use the Loyalty
process below instead: (Cost: 10 BP, 5 RP)
Each character on your roster will undergo You have completed all of your assigned tasks, 
the ascension process. Roll 1D6 for each. If and the only step left is to prepare the colony 
you completed the Moved in Time and Space for formal inclusion as a registered Unity Main 
Mission Data Breakthrough, you may select one World as a Unity administration base. 
character that automatically rolls a 6 instead of 
rolling the die: ◆	 If you completed the Ancient Factory 

Mission Data Breakthrough, reduce the BP 
D6 ASCENSION cost to 5.

1 They perish in the process as their body ◆	 If you completed the Terraforming Mission 
or mind rejects ascension. Data Breakthrough, reduce the RP cost to 0.

2-4 They undergo ascension and join ◆	 If you completed the Ancient Colony 
the new species. Mission Data Breakthrough, reduce the BP 

5-6 The ascension process succeeds and cost to 6 and the RP cost to 2.
earns 1 point of ascension energy. Roll 2D6 and pick either result to determine 

Tally up the amount of ascension energy and the long-term plan for the colony.
roll 1D6. D6 FUTURE

If you received the Signs of Genetic 1 Trading post
Modification Mission Data Breakthrough, add 2 

2 Staging ground for continued 
to the amount of ascension energy generated. colonization missions
If the roll exceeds the amount of ascension 3 Resource extraction
energy (or nothing was generated), nothing 
further occurs. Your surviving colonists are now 4 Research station
a distinct sub-species of Humanity, perfectly 5 Unity naval base
adapted to exist on this world. 6 Major habitation
If the roll is equal or below the amount of 
energy, consult the die result below (do not roll Then roll 1D6 to determine the future of each 
again, use the same score). character if you like:

162



Campaign Development

D6 ADMINISTRATOR ROLE 2D6 NOMAD STRUGGLES

1 Retires in civilian life Someone in the column falls, never to 
stand again. In a way, they too are now 

2 Retire if Disloyal, otherwise assigned to 
a new expedition one with the world. 

3 Assigned to a new expedition A random character from your roster is 
2 killed. Roll again unless every character 

4 Assigned to Unity field agent or 
other operative has died. If you completed the Psionic 

Manipulation Mission Data Breakthrough, 
5 Gets lucrative job with mega- the first time this occurs you receive  

corporation 1 point of Wisdom (see 8-12, below).
6 A future as an independent adventurer Whether from deprivation, poisoning, or 

Players should note that this option is the animal attacks, the march is a difficult one.

safe one: A random character from your roster 
Nobody dies and you will not risk being suffers a hardship. If the same character 
incinerated by a Unity naval cruiser. It is after 3-7 suffers hardship again, they die. Roll 
all the reason you were sent out and being able again unless every character has died.
to rely on the support of Unity to achieve your If you completed the Semi-Living 
goals has its benefits. Organism Mission Data Breakthrough, 

you may ignore the first two hardship 
Isolation results that you roll.
(Cost: 5 BP, 10 RP) As you struggle in the wild, you have a 

Your scouts have already selected a suitable vision that shows you how to attain true 

location for the new colony. Your characters set oneness with nature.

out on a lonely march, attempting to become 8-12 One point of Wisdom is attained.  
a tribe of nomads living in harmony with the Roll again unless you have now reached 
world or perishing in the process. 3 Wisdom, in which case your colonists 
Roll 2D6 and consult the table below: have founded a new tribe successfully.  

163



Campaign Development

Characters after the End In addition (win or lose), you may begin the 
Your characters may be in all manner of places campaign with 2 additional Story Points.
after they complete the campaign. Take a If you completed the Isolation endgame, 
moment to evaluate any survivors. This is select one character: They gain 1 point of 
mostly left up to the player. By the time you Luck. You may only bring one character from 
complete the campaign, you will likely have a an Isolation victory into each new campaign.
good sense of what you want to do and what 
feels natural. ◆	 If you completed the Ascension endgame, 

select one character: They gain psionic 
The following guidelines apply for characters abilities (see 5PFH Compendium, p.17).
that move into campaigns of Five Parsecs from 
Home, Bug Hunt, or Tactics: What about the Slyn?
◆	 You may take any artifact weapons, armor, 

and equipment with you, but each character The Slyn remain a mystery to be unraveled. You 
can take only one such item. are encouraged to think of your own solution to 

the issue of their attacks: 
◆	 Upgraded equipment developed during 

◆	
the campaign can be taken with you as well. Does Unity fleet presence finally drive them 
These items are not in limited supply, but a off? 
character can only take items they were able ◆	 Does Ascension permit you to finally 
to be used in Planetfall. understand them? 

◆	 Characters bring along all abilities obtained, ◆	 Does an independent colony policy allow 
and profile increases they have earned. you to make a deal with the otherwise 

Five Parsecs from Home-specific notes: hostile creatures?
◆	

◆	 If you completed the Loyalty endgame, you Does the conflict continue until it escalates 
can begin the campaign with a random ship into large scale warfare?
and no debt. ◆	 Maybe the mysterious creatures disappear 

◆	 If you completed the Independence as suddenly as they appeared? 
endgame, but lost the war, any characters You may prefer the Slyn to remain a mystery as 
that escaped captivity begins the campaign well. Did they feature heavily in your campaign 
with 1 Rival (with an even chance of or were they only encountered once or twice? 
Enforcers or Bounty Hunters). These Rivals Perhaps they were simply passing through 
will pursue you from world to world but can and your fights were chance encounters? Or 
otherwise be defeated normally. perhaps they have a more nefarious scheme 

◆	 If you won, you begin the campaign with that connects into these strange worlds, the 
a ship. You must pay off the debt normally, future history of your characters and the fate of 
but you begin with 2D6 Credits of it already the galaxy as a whole?
paid off. 

164



Campaign Development

Calamities
“The uncharted worlds are strange. For the details of each Calamity, see the 
Sometimes it feels like the world itself is entries below.
conspiring against us.” 

– Head researcher for ultra-flora Enemy Super Weapon
in the Soissons Quadrant A random Tactical Enemy is building a super 

As your colony develops, you will have to weapon that they intend to shoot at your colony. 
contend with moments of crisis as they occur. The enemy will complete 1D6 points of 
These can take several forms and are known progress at the end of every campaign turn. 
collectively as Calamities. When the total progress reaches 15, the 

weapon is launched and will inflict 3D6 
The Calamity Check damage to your colony. Every 6 rolled on the 
Check for Calamities each time you achieve a damage roll also causes a randomly selected 
Milestone. Add up the number of Calamity character to make a roll on the Post-Battle 
Points listed in the Milestone progress and Injury table (see page 66).
immediately roll 1D6. If the roll is equal to or When the weapon is launched, the enemy 
below the total Calamity points, subtract the roll begins building the next one, starting again 
from the total Calamity points and then roll on from 0.
the table below to see what occurs. Tracking down the weapon site requires an 
If the roll is above the Calamity points total, no Enemy Information roll (see page 60). Once 
Calamity occurs, and the points remain. successful, you can then play out a Strike 
For example, if I have 4 Calamity Points and mission, with success destroying the weapon 
roll a 3, a Calamity will occur, and 1 Calamity production capability. This ends the Calamity. 
Point would remain to be carried forward. If no Tactical Enemies are on the map currently, 
Calamity Points are not gained or lost in any randomly roll on the Tactical Enemies table 
other fashion. to determine what you end up fighting. The 

enemy will be a minor scouting force and not 
D100 CALAMITY connected to any other group.
01-11 Swarm Infestation As you loot the enemy site, you may roll twice on 
12-25 Environmental risk the Post-Mission Finds table (see page 134).
