
within 1” of the battlefield edge. 
Map Location Opposition
The map sector must be an Investigation site. Due to your quick approach, the Slyn will not 
Table Setup attack you.
Use a 3x3-foot table populated with terrain. Place 1 Contact marker at the center of each of 
This type of mission will look better the more the battlefield edges you did not deploy from. 
weird and alien terrain there is, particularly if 
you have odd-looking buildings or ruins to use. The first time a Contact is revealed to be hostile 

Lifeforms, roll on your Campaign Lifeform 
Place a Discovery marker in the center of each Encounters table to determine the encounter. If 
table quarter. If a terrain feature covers the the result is a blank entry, generate the creature 
exact location, place the marker in the center of now and add it to your encounter table.
that terrain feature instead. At the start of each Enemy Phase, label the 
If you wish to use the Uncertain Features rule, battlefield edges 1 to 3, excluding your 
place one in each table quarter. deployment edge. Roll 1D6. If the die result 
There are no Battlefield Conditions. matches an edge, place a Contact there. If the 

die is a 4, 5, or 6, do not place a Contact.

Objectives
Your goal is to search the area for interesting 
sights. Each of the Discovery markers can 
be investigated by moving within 2” of the 
marker. The marker is removed, and you 
immediately roll 1D6 on the table below:

Mission Objectives table

1D6 OBJECTIVE DESCRIPTION

1 Enemy Enemy sentries! Place a Sleeper (see page 154) in the most distant 
terrain feature the investigating figure can see. 

2 Rewards You tag the location for later extraction. You may roll once on the Post-Mission 
Finds table (see page 134) after the mission is over.

3 Contact Lifeforms are lurking here. Place a Contact in the terrain feature closest 
to where the Discovery marker was. 

4 Action required A closer look is required. A character must move into base contact and take an 
action. Roll 1D6+Savvy. A score of 5+ will earn you 1 unit of Raw Materials.

You have found Mission Data. A character must move into base contact and 
5-6 Data spend an action to collect the data. It is then transmitted to your colony where 

it will be analyzed during the post-battle campaign sequence.

115



Missions

Ending the Mission Your crew sets up within 1” of each other and 
The mission ends when your squad is no longer within 1” of the battlefield edge. 
on the table, either due to being casualties or 
moving off any battlefield edge. You are not Opposition
required to exit from the edge you arrived from. As you are deploying quietly, the Slyn will not 

attack you. 
Rewards
You receive any rewards you acquired  Place 1 Contact marker in the center of the 
during the mission. If you completed at least table. 
1 Discovery marker, the mission is no longer The first time a Contact is revealed to be 
marked as an Investigation site on your hostile Lifeforms, roll on the Campaign 
campaign map. Lifeform Encounters table to determine what 
Note that investigating a sector does not mean you encounter. If the result is a blank entry, 
it has been Explored or Exploited. generate the creature now and add it to your 

encounter table.

Scouting Mission At the start of each Enemy Phase, roll 1D6.  
On a 6, another Contact is placed in the center 

A small scouting mission is being deployed of a random battlefield edge. 
to assess the area for further exploration and 
exploitation. For this mission, when rolling for Contact 

movement, if the Aggression and Random 
Note: This is an alternative to the Scout Action scores are equal, do not place a new Contact. 
in the campaign sequence, allowing you to Instead, the Contact remains in place and takes 
speed the process of determining the Resource no actions. 
and Hazard levels of map spaces.

Objectives
Map Location You are here to collect recon data. To do this, 
Any sector that has not been Explored and you must move into base contact with the 
which is not an Investigation site. Recon markers. 

Table Setup A scout can recon automatically by moving 
Use a  2x2-foot table. Populate it with lots of into base contact. Any other character must 
terrain. move into base contact and roll 1D6+Savvy.  

A 5+ succeeds. On a failed test, the recon is  
After setting up, put a Recon marker in the  not possible. 
6 largest terrain features. Recon data is sent back to your colony 
If you use the Uncertain Features rule, place automatically.
one in each table quarter. Battlefield Conditions 
are not used in this mission. Ending the Mission

The mission ends when your squad is no longer 
Player Forces on the table, either due to being casualties 
You may deploy 2 characters from your roster. or moving off any battlefield edge. You do 
You are not required to deploy a scout, but it is not have to exit via a specific edge. Typically, 
highly recommended. once you have completed your tasks, you will 
Select a battlefield edge and roll 1D6. On 4+, move to evacuate off the battlefield. Any crew 
you may arrive from this edge, otherwise pick member that leaves the table is assumed to 
randomly from the remaining edges. return safely to your vehicle.

116



Missions

Rewards Exploration Mission
For each Recon marker successfully 
investigated, roll 1D6. For every 6, the You are tasked with sweeping the area and 
Resource level of the sector is increased  dealing with any opposition or hazards that 
by +1. present themselves. The job may or may not be 

a simple one – you won’t know until you land. 
If you cleared at least 3 Recon markers, you 
may also roll for a Post-Mission Find (see  Map Location
page 134) The Exploration mission takes place in any  

map sector that your scouts have explored,  
Campaign Factors but which has not yet been Exploited. 
The sector is considered to have been Explored.

Table Setup
Roll two D6 and pick the lowest number, then 
add any bonuses from the Rewards section.  Use a  3x3-foot table populated with terrain. 
This is the Resource level. Place Objective markers equal to the Resource 

Value of the map sector, distributed around the 
Roll two D6 and pick the lowest number. table fairly evenly.
This is the Hazard level. Objectives will look best if they are in or near 
Mark the values on the map. interesting terrain features.  

If you wish to use the optional Uncertain 
Features rule, place 2 Uncertain Features on 
the table.
Roll once for Battlefield Conditions. 

117



Missions

Player Forces To sweep an Objective marker you must end 
Deploy 6 characters from your roster. a battle round with a figure within 3” and no 
Randomly select a battlefield edge (if your table enemies closer than you. The Slyn use the same 
is placed against a wall, just pick from the edges rules to secure Objectives for themselves.
you can sit at). Your crew sets up anywhere you 
like within 4” of the selected battlefield edge. For both sides, only one Objective can be 

secured by each side in one battle round. If you 
Opposition are in range of two or more Objectives, you  
After deploying, roll 2D6. If the roll is 2-4, you can choose which one to secure. The Slyn pick 
are attacked by the Slyn. at random. 

Determine the opposition as explained on  Once secured, an Objective is removed from 
page 152. The Slyn will set up in randomly the table. 
selected terrain features near the opposite Lifeforms will ignore the Objectives. 
battlefield edge. Locate the 6 terrain features 
closest to that battlefield edge and roll Ending the Mission
randomly for each Slyn pair to see which they The mission ends when your squad is no longer 
deploy into. on the table, either due to being casualties 
On any other result, the threat is from wildlife, or moving off any battlefield edge. You do 
and the Contact system is used (page 41). Place not have to exit via a specific edge. Typically, 
a number of initial Contact markers equal to once you have completed your tasks, you will 
the Hazard level. Each Contact is placed in the move to evacuate off the battlefield. Any crew 
nearest terrain feature to the center of the table, member that leaves the table is assumed to 
one Contact per feature. return safely to your vehicle.

The first time a Contact is revealed to be If you are fighting the Slyn, the mission also 
hostile Lifeforms, roll on your Campaign ends if you drive them off. If the Slyn abandon 
Lifeform Encounters table to determine what the battle, you can claim any remaining 
you encounter. If the result is a blank entry, Objectives that were not claimed already. 
generate the creature now and add it to your Rewards
encounter table. You may roll on the Post-Mission Find table 
Objectives (page 134) once per Objective you completed. 
Your objective is to conduct a sweep of the area Campaign Factors
to assess it for value to the colony. The Objective 
markers represent locations that the scout Roll 1D6 for each Objective you complete. 
teams have assessed will need to be scanned to ◆	 Every 1 increases the Hazard level by  
determine their resource worth. +1 point. 
If the Slyn are attacking, they are carrying out ◆	 Every 2 has no effect.
scans of their own. Should they succeed, they 
will attack the area again, preventing your ◆	 Every 3-6 reduces the Resource value of the 
colonists from exploiting any natural resources. sector by -1 point. Once the Resources reach 

0, the sector is Exploited and can no longer 
Each Enemy Phase, a random Slyn pair will be Explored or subject to Science missions.
move towards the nearest Objective to their 
current position. The rest will move and fight to Special Rules
engage your forces. No additional special rules apply. 

118



Missions

Science Mission random battlefield edge. If this results in two 
You are carrying out a quick mission to obtain Contacts being placed, roll randomly for the 
scientific samples, hopefully without attracting placement of each.
too much attention. For this mission, when rolling for Contact 

movement, if the Aggression and Random 
Map Location scores are equal, do not place a new Contact. 
Any sector that has a Resource value of  Instead, the Contact remains in place and takes 
1 or more. no actions. 

Table Setup Objectives
Use a  2x2-foot table. Populate it with lots of You are here to collect scientific samples. To do 
terrain. this, you must move into base contact with the 
After setting up, put a Science marker (use an Science markers. 
Objective marker or Delve Device marker) in the A scientist can collect the sample automatically 
6 largest terrain features. by moving into base contact with it. Any other 
The Uncertain Features and Battle Conditions character must roll 1D6+Savvy. A 5+ succeeds 
rules are not used in this mission. and collects the sample. On a failed test, the 

sample is ruined. 
Player Forces Once collected, the sample data is 
You may deploy 2 characters from your roster. automatically sent back to your colony. 
You are not required to deploy a scientist, but it 
is highly recommended. Ending the Mission
Select a battlefield edge and roll 1D6. On 4+, The mission ends when your squad is no 
you may arrive from this edge, otherwise pick longer on the table, either due to being 
randomly from the remaining edges. casualties or moving off any battlefield edge. 

You do not have to exit via a specific edge. 
Your crew sets up within 1” of each other and Typically, once you have completed your tasks, 
within 1” of the battlefield edge. you will move to evacuate off the battlefield. 

Any crew member that leaves the table is 
Opposition assumed to return safely to your vehicle.
As you are deploying quietly, the Slyn will not 
attack you and you should be able to avoid Rewards
most opposition. For each sample collected, roll 1D6. On 4-6, 
Place 1 Contact marker in the center of the you receive 1 Research Point. If you roll more 
table. than a single 6 when doing this, you also 

receive 1 unit of Mission Data. 
The first time a Contact is revealed to be 
hostile Lifeforms, roll on your Campaign If you cleared at least 3 Science markers,  
Lifeform Encounters table to determine what you may also roll for a Post-Mission Find  
you encounter. If the result is a blank entry, (see page 134).
generate the creature now and add it to your Campaign Factors
encounter table. If you collected any samples, the Resource 
At the start of each Enemy Phase, roll 1D6  value of the sector is reduced by 1.
(2D6 if the Hazard level is 4+). On a 6, place 
another Contact marker in the center of a 

119



Missions

Hunt Mission Opposition
The researchers want you to acquire a specimen After deploying, roll 2D6. If the roll is 2-4, you 
of a local Lifeform for investigation. are attacked by the Slyn.

Determine the opposition as explained on page 
Map Location 152. The Slyn will set up in randomly selected 
Select any map sector within 4 spaces of your terrain features near the opposite battlefield 
colony. edge. Locate the 6 terrain features closest to 

that battlefield edge and roll randomly for each 
Table Setup Slyn pair to see which they deploy into.
Use a  3x3-foot table populated with terrain. On any other result, you will be hunting for 
If you wish to use the optional Uncertain Lifeforms.
Features rule, place 2 Uncertain Features on 
the table. Roll 1D6 for each terrain feature that any of 

your characters have a Line of Sight to. Each 6 
Roll once for Battlefield Conditions. results in a Contact being placed in or directly 

behind the feature. As you play the game, the 
Player Forces first time each terrain feature is spotted for the 
You will deploy up to 6 figures which can be first time, the same roll is made to determine 
any combination of characters from your roster if it contains a Contact. The mission will always 
or grunts. feature at least 3 Contacts. If not enough have 
Select a battlefield edge and deploy your been generated, the last 1-3 terrain features to 
characters anywhere within 3” of the edge. be spotted will each house a Contact.

The first time a Contact is revealed to be 
hostile Lifeforms, one scout on the table may 

120



Missions

