through this area or firing a weapon into, out of, or through the 
area must roll 1D6. On 6, the area partially collapses. All figures 

in the area take a Damage +0 hit and the ground is Difficult  
for the rest of the mission. A second collapse makes it  

Impassable and causes all in the area to become casualties. 
Scouts can move through an unstable area without risk but 

must roll if they begin or end a move in the area.
40-50 Shock discharge Place a marker where the Delve Hazard was. Immediately and at 

the start of each Enemy Phase, roll 1D6. All characters within that 
distance in inches, regardless of intervening terrain, are unable 
to move or take any actions when next activated. Sleepers and 

bots also take a +0 Damage hit, ignoring Saving Throws. 
A roll of 6 for the distance ends the Shock discharge.

51-67 Toxic fog The fog expands 2” in every direction (blocked by solid walls) 
and moves at the end of each Enemy Phase 1D6” in a random 
direction, moving along walls if it would otherwise be stopped. 

Any non-Sleeper/bot character touched by the fog takes a  
+1 Damage hit, ignoring Saving Throws.  

Scouts are hit for +0 Damage instead.
68-79 Sleeper reset All Sleepers on the table are unable to activate in the next  

Enemy Phase. At the end of that Phase, place an additional 
Sleeper in the center of two random battlefield edges. 

80-88 Collapse The marker is replaced with rubble, blocking all access.  
If the rubble falls in a corridor, it blocks the width of the corridor. 

If it falls in a room or open space, it blocks an area 
1.5” radius centered on that location. 

Any figure within the blocked area can leap out of the way. 
89-00 Radiation build-up The area within 3” and Line of Sight of the Delve Hazard 

is radioactive. Any non-Sleeper/bot that begins or ends an 
activation in the area takes a Damage +0 hit, ignoring any 

existing Saving Throws. Instead, a special Saving Throw is 
allowed for scouts (5+) and scientists (4+).

132



Missions

Objectives Ending the Mission
You must move to base contact with each of The mission ends when you have no characters 
the Delve Devices and take an action. Roll 1D6 left on the table. To leave the mission you must 
on the table below. If you roll a result you have move to either your initial entrance or the exit 
already had, take the first result you have not. discovered in the first round. Characters do not 

have to leave through the same exit. 
D6 RESULT

1 Unusable: Ignore this Device. Rewards
Time based activation: A character must You receive a random Alien Artifact if you 

2-3 be within 1” for two consecutive battle find the Artifact during the mission. As the 
rounds to activate the device. Artifact is extracted by drone, you may keep 

4-5 Automatic activation: No actions it even if your crew becomes casualties in the 
are required. process of escaping. 

Skill-based activation: A character must You also receive 2 Research Points and  
6 take an action and roll 1D6+Savvy 2 Build Points for completing the Delve. 

scoring a 4+.
Campaign Factors

When you have performed 3 activations (not Once you acquire the Artifact, the Alien Site  
counting an “Unusable” result on the table), is removed.
you unlock the location of the Artifact. It is 
placed 2D6” randomly from the center of the You also receive 2 Research Points and  
table. Any character can pick it up by moving 2 Build Points for completing the Delve. 
into base contact. Campaign Factors

Once you acquire the Artifact, the Alien Site  
is removed.

133



Missions

Post-Mission Finds
If directed to by the mission rules, you may Exploitation
receive a number of rolls on this table after 
winning an encounter. Finds can include Completing an Exploration mission that 
actual materials found in the battle area or it reduces the Resource level to 0 will mark a 
can represent the less substantial gains of a sector as Exploited. Unless it is repopulated 
successful field mission. again, it cannot be the subject of another 

Exploration mission.
Each mission will detail how many Find rolls 
you are permitted. This does not affect any other sources of Finds 

or other mission types.  
Some finds will indicate a bonus for having a 
scientist or scout on the mission. This requires 
at least one must still be on their feet at the end 
of the battle and not a casualty.

Finds table

D100 FIND DETAILS

01-25 Scientific You collect samples that would be of interest to the research team.
curiosities Receive 2 Research Points.

26-35 Building You find a cache of valuable materials that you can dispatch a team to collect. 
materials Receive 2 Build Points.

36-60 Raw materials Receive 3 units of Raw Materials. 
61-70 Hints of  You find ruins, artifacts, or signs that could help unveil the history 

planetary history of this world. 

Receive 1 Story Point.
If your squad included any scientists, add 1 Research Point as well. 

71-80 By the book Despite some hardships, it was a solid mission, and everyone performed well.
victory Pick one character to have been the cornerstone behind it all. 

They receive +1 XP.
If your squad included any scouts claim 1 unit of Raw Materials as well.

81-95 Decisive victory Success in the field will no doubt reassure the colonists.

Receive +1 Colony Morale.
If your squad included any scouts claim 1 unit of Raw Material as well.

96-00 Ancient Sign You dig up an artifact of decidedly unknown origin.

Gain 1 Ancient Sign.  
If your squad included any scientists claim 1 Research Point as well.

134



Missions

Alien Artifacts
Searching Ancient Sites may allow you to locate 
an Alien Artifact. If permitted, roll D100 on the Truly Unique Artifacts 
Artifacts table below to determine what you (optional rule)
have located. Only one roll is made per Ancient 
Site you successfully investigate. Each Artifact can be found only once... ever! 

If you begin a new campaign, all Artifacts you 
Artifacts can belong to one of three types: found in prior campaigns remain unavailable.
Single-Use: Once they have been activated to You may decide when to reset this (if at all). In 
receive the bonus in question, they are gone. the event you find every artifact, future Artifact 
You can choose when to use them, however Finds are treated as 1 Research Point, 1 Build 
and can hang on to the item as long as you like. Point, and 1 unit of Raw Materials.

Equipment: Artifact equipment is given to 
a specific character and cannot be traded Artifacts table

away later. If the character dies or leaves the D100 ARTIFACT
campaign, the item is lost. 01-03 Flex-rigid armor vest (Equipment)
Artifact weapons can be used by any character, The character receives a 
regardless of class. 4+ Armor Saving Throw.
Colony item: The Artifact becomes part of your 04-07 Preventative nano deployment 
colony. Think of it as a type of building. (Colony Item)

As Artifacts can take almost any form, they are Increase the Colony Repair Rate by +1.
described by the letter assigned by the research 08-10 Ancient AI chip (Colony Item)
department and not their form or appearance. Gain one additional Research Point 
You are free to imagine each Artifact taking per campaign turn.
whatever form fits your campaign world the 11-13 Inherent core principal carbine 
best, from a tiny orb of coalesced psionic (Equipment)
energy to a rune-carved pedestal in a temple.  Range 15”, Damage 2, Shots 1, 
Artifacts are Unique +1 to hit.

Each Artifact can be found only once in a 14-16 Mutative nano materials (Colony Item)
campaign. If you roll an artifact you have Gain one additional Build Point 
previously found, you instead receive the next per campaign turn.
item down on the list (wrapping back around to 17-19 Short-range phase displacer 
the beginning if needed). (Equipment)

When moving, the character may teleport 
Bringing Artifacts to other Campaigns to any location within their movement 
Unused Single-Use Artifacts can be brought range instead of moving normally.
along to a future Planetfall campaign. 20-22 Adjusted bio-targeting array 
Artifact Equipment can be brought along into (Colony Item)
any campaign the character is later exported to. Increase Colony Defenses by +1.
Colony Item artifacts cannot be carried over into 23-26 Altered psi-wave emitter (Single-Use)
any other campaign. All characters in Sick Bay immediately 

recover completely.

