Progression is measured with Experience become casualties in the first two rounds are 
Points (XP), which are earned after each awarded as normal (they received a hard-won 
mission. lesson about taking cover!).

A character only receives mission XP if they 
participated in a mission, but any character that Spending XP
was on the table for at least 1 round qualifies. Once a character has accumulated enough 
XP can be awarded through random events and experience points, you may spend 5 XP to roll 
other factors, and these can be earned even if on the Advancement table below to gain 
the character did not take part in a mission. an advance. This modifies the profile of the 

character as noted in the table. 
XP are tallied together for each character 
individually and may be spent to upgrade a The number in parenthesis indicates the 
character’s ability score. Each ability score can maximum value possible in a given ability 
be upgraded to a maximum value as indicated score. If you roll an increase that is already 
below and each character may purchase only a maxed out, select any other advance of choice.
single upgrade per campaign turn. XP Points Buy – Option
A character “directly kills” a Leader if they If you prefer a nonrandom option, you may 
carried out the attack that killed the Leader. use the costs below. This allows you to buy 
Only Tactical Enemies have Leaders. A character upgrades directly. Players coming from Five 
that kills more than one Leader receives the Parsecs from Home will note that this is the 
reward only once. same system used in that book.

Mission XP table 

MISSION XP AMOUNT RECIPIENT

Participated in the battle +1 Every eligible character
…and did not become a casualty +1 Every eligible character

Directly killed an enemy Boss or Leader +1 Each eligible character once per battle

Advancement table 

D100 ABILITY ADVANCE

01-15 Speed increase (max. 8”) First time, +2”. Second and third time, +1”.
16-35 Reactions increase (max. 6) +1 each time. Scientists may trade this for Savvy. 
36-55 Combat Skill increase (max. +5) +1 each time. Scouts may trade this for Reactions.
56-75 Toughness increase (max. 6) +1 each time. 
76-90 Savvy increase (max. +5) +1 each time. Troopers may trade this for Toughness.
91-00 Kill Point increase (max. 3) +1 KP

67



The Campaign

Paying for an upgrade increases the ability Step 11: Colony Morale 
score in question by 1 point from the current Adjustments
value. The morale of your colony is subject to  

ABILITY XP MAXIMUM constant changes as the campaign progresses 
SCORE COST LEVEL (this system is explained in detail on page 89). 
Reactions 7 6 In particular, your Colony Morale score 

Combat Skill 7 +5 automatically drops 1 point during this step, 
Speed 5 8” regardless of any actions taken. It will drop an 

additional point for every battle casualty. 
Toughness 6 6

If you were playing a Rescue Mission, you do 
Savvy 5 +5 NOT suffer Morale loss due to casualties, except 

for the colonists in the mission.
If you are now at -10 or worse, you must now 

Alternate Advancement Options roll on the Morale Incident table (see page 90).

A character eligible for an advancement roll may If a Crisis is ongoing, a test is now made to 
instead pick one of the following options: determine the resolution of the Crisis.

◆	 If currently Disloyal or Committed, increase Step 12: Track Enemy Information 
Loyalty to Loyal. and Mission Data

◆	 If the character is a scientist, gain  
3 Research Points instead. If you fought a Tactical Enemy and won, add  

1 Enemy Information for that enemy type. You 
◆	 If the character is a scout, gain 3 units of  should also note that they cannot take an action 

Raw Materials instead. next campaign turn. If they are selected to take 
one, treat it as no event.
If you obtained any Mission Data, note it on 
your roster. It is resolved when you reach a 
Campaign Milestone (see page 156).

Step 13: Replacements
As you play the campaign, it is likely you will 
suffer casualties. Among your colonists there 
will be exceptional individuals who can take a 
place among your squad, but they are often few 
in number.

Civvy Heroic Promotion the number of replacements you can attempt 
per turn is 1 + 1 per Milestone achieved.  

If any civvies participated in the mission, pick If you have less than a full roster (8 characters, 
one who did not become a casualty and roll initially), roll 2D6, trying to obtain a 
2D6. On 10-12, they have shown themselves replacement by doing surveys and interviews 
to have what it takes and can be added to your of your colonists:
roster of grunts.

68



The Campaign

2D6 REPLACEMENT Step 16: Colony Integrity
2-6 No replacement is currently available. If your current Colony Integrity is -3 or worse, 

Roll 1D6 again: check to see what the consequences are for the 
damage your colony has taken. See page 87 

1-2:	 You may take a trooper. for more on Colony Integrity and the Integrity 
7-8 3-4:	 You may take a scientist. Failure table. 

5-6:	 You may take a scout.
Each begins with the standard profile. Step 17: Character Event

9-12 You may take a replacement of your 
choice. Your characters have their own lives when 

they are not on mission. Randomly select one 
All characters enter with a Loyalty level of character and roll D100 on the Character 
Committed. Event table (see page 70) to see what 
If desired for any reason, you may dismiss happens to them.
characters from your roster at this stage. All characters are potentially eligible even if 
Dismissed characters cannot be returned to the they are recovering from injuries (adventurers 
campaign later. rarely keep still just because they have a 

bandaged arm and a broken foot). 
Step 14: Research If a character is currently absent from the 
During this step, you receive any Research campaign entirely, such as during the R&R 
Points (RP) you have earned from any sources event, they cannot be the target of events. 
this campaign turn, which are added to any (Note that your Administrator does not count as 
points you had left over from prior campaign a character for event purposes.) 
turns. In some rare cases, the effects of an event turn 
Any RP you have accumulated can now out to be impossible to implement. If this 
be spent, allowing you to research new happens, ignore the event; instead, nothing 
technologies. This is explained in detail on happens this campaign turn.
page 91. Grunts cannot be the target of Character Events. 

Step 15: Building Step 17a: Character Roleplay 
During this step, you receive any Build Points Events (optional rule)
(BP) you have earned from any sources this 
campaign turn, which are added to any points If you choose to, you may generate roleplay 
you had left over from prior campaign turns. events at this stage. Roleplay events have no 

effect on game mechanics but are included for 
Any BP can now be spent, allowing you to players who wish to flesh out the ongoing story 
construct new buildings for your colony. This is and for the benefit of those who enjoy writing 
explained in detail on page 97. up their campaigns online or in a notebook. They 
You may reclaim one building at this point, can also serve as inspiration for custom scenarios 
gaining BP equal to half the BP cost of the or side stories.
building, rounded down. These can be spent To generate roleplay events, see page 72.
immediately.

69



The Campaign

Character Event table 

D100 CHARACTER 
EVENT DESCRIPTION

The character undergoes a training course to hone their 
01-05 Personal training mission-relevant skills. 

The character gains +2 XP.
Proficiency is ideally rewarded with improvements in rank and responsibility.

06-10 Minor promotion The character gains a level of Loyalty and +1 XP. If they were already Loyal, 
gain +2 XP (total).

11-15 Personal The character does a bit of information gathering.
investigation Randomly choose a Tactical Enemy and receive +1 Enemy Information.

The character comes down with a minor illness.
16-20 Something in the 

water, I suppose If the character is in sick bay, increase their recovery time by 1 turn. If they are 
not in sick bay, they get a tummy ache but are otherwise fine.

The character earns some time off world.

The character is gone for 2 campaign turns during which they cannot be 
21-25 R&R the target of events. They recover completely from any injuries, 

regardless of recovery time.
If they are Disloyal, roll 1D6: On 1-2, they do not return; on a 3-5, 

they remain Disloyal; and on a 6, they become Committed.
The character is offered a new assignment.

26-30 Change of Decide if they accept. If they do, they immediately earn 5 XP and are 
assignment transferred to another Five Parsecs game of your choice. If they decline, 

gain 1 level of Loyalty. 

31-35 Disputes with The character has a heated disagreement with Administration.
leadership The character loses a level of Loyalty but cannot drop below Disloyal.

The character is satisfied with recent Administration actions and is 
36-40 Commitment to dedicated to the cause.

the cause
The character gains a level of Loyalty.

A clash of personalities occurs on the team.

41-45 Dispute Randomly pick a second character. The two have a heated dispute over 
something and cannot both be assigned to the mission next campaign turn 

unless you are fighting a Pitched Battle.
Time spent customizing gun sights and ammunition loads pays off.

46-50 Personal 
calibrations The next time the character is on a mission, select one weapon they carry, 

which receives a +1 hit bonus for the duration of that mission.
The character falls ill.

51-55 Sickness
They must spend 2 campaign turns recovering.

70



The Campaign

D100 CHARACTER 
EVENT DESCRIPTION

The character has spent some quality time with a random character 
on your roster.

56-60 Making friends
They each earn +1 XP and may each roll 1D6: On 5-6, they gain 

one level of Loyalty.
Something significant happens in the characters life 

61-65 Personal life (marriage, a new baby, a graduation, etc.)
achievement

Receive 1 Story Point and 1 point of Colony Morale.
All that fresh air is paying off.

66-70 Excellent health If currently recovering from injuries, reduce the time required by 2 turns.  
If not injured, the effect can be saved. 

The character injures themselves during work.
71-75 Accident Roll on the Post-battle Injury table (page 66) to see how badly they are hurt. 

If you roll “Dead”, it instead counts as 5 turns of recovery. 
After some hard lessons, the character is determined to learn.

76-80 Personal reflection
The next time they go on a mission, they earn double XP.

81-85 Personal 
conviction If the last mission was a success, gain one level of Loyalty.

The character has serious disagreements over the mission and 
86-90 Losing faith how it is being done.

If the last mission was a failure, they lose one level of Loyalty. 
Something happens to throw the character off their game. 

91-95 Personal tragedy Next campaign turn they forfeit all XP they would have earned that turn.  
You may opt to keep them out of a mission to avoid losing out on any points. 

The character will sit around the office and mope.
The character has found something new to do in their spare time (sport, 

amateur band, wood working, miniatures painting).
96-00 New hobby

They receive +1 XP and will irritate everyone else as they 
talk about it constantly. 

Step 18: Update Colony Sheet
Finally, take a moment to ensure you have 
updated everything to account for the events of 
this campaign turn. Tidy your Colony Tracking 
Sheet now, if you need to.
If you are keeping a campaign diary or are 
sharing your games online, this is a good time 
to do so.

71



The Campaign

14

Character Roleplay Events 
(Optional Rule)

Roleplay events are included for players Character Roleplay Event table
who want to flesh out the ongoing story or 
who enjoy writing up the results of their D100 ROLEPLAY EVENT

campaigns online or in a notebook. They can 01-50 Character roleplay event
also serve as inspiration for custom scenarios 51-70 News report
or side stories. 71-85 Current colony trend
A number of roleplay-oriented tables are 86-90 Character roleplay event and 
presented below. You can decide to use one  news report
at random each campaign turn, pick the one 

91-95 Character roleplay event and 
you are most interested in, cycle through current colony trend
them each turn, or use multiple tables, if you 96-00 News report and current colony trend
prefer. These tables are provided for your  
fun and convenience. Use the following Character Roleplay Event
table as a start point before consulting the 
subtables suggested. Randomly select a character (or pick one 

you want to follow), and roll D100 on the 
subtable below (some results also have a D6 
follow-up roll). 
Many events will refer to another character, 
selected randomly from your roster. Grunts are 
not usually the target of these events, though 
you may choose to involve them, if you like.

72



The Campaign

Character Roleplay Event subtable

D100 ROLEPLAY EVENT

01-05 The character is adapting to colony life and changes some of their habits.
The character spends some long hours at work finishing a project. Roll D6:

06-10 1:	 It ultimately doesn’t work.
2-4:	 It succeeds according to plan.
5-6:	 It succeeds extremely well.

11-15 The character makes a detailed plan for what they will do after their tour of duty or contract ends.
16-20 The character changes their opinion on something.

The character receives a letter from home. Roll D6: 
1:	 Bad news

21-25 2-3:	 General life updates
4-5:	 Heartwarming news
6:	 Great news

26-30 The character spends a few days in a bit of a funk about life.
31-35 The character pays another character a visit.

The character gets in an argument with another character. Roll D6:
1:	 Their relationship worsens.

36-40 2:	 It remains unresolved.
3-4:	 It gets resolved.
5:	 Another character resolves it for them.
6:	 It strengthens their relationship.

41-45 Two characters run into each other in the street and spend some time talking.
46-50 Another character gets the character a gift.
51-55 The character decides to pursue a new interest or hobby.
56-60 The character takes a few days of R&R.

The character goes out for a night on the town with two other characters. Roll D6:

61-65 1:	 They end up getting in trouble.
2-4:	 They have a fine night.
5-6:	 They get completely wasted.

66-70 The character makes a fool of themselves at work.
71-75 The character arranges a movie night with two other characters.

The character is assigned to a special work project with another character. Roll D6:

76-80 1:	 They bicker.
2-5:	 They work together well.
6:	 It strengthens their relationship.

81-85 The character has a heart-to-heart talk with another character.
86-90 The character finds a new passion in life such as music or literature.
91-95 The character begins writing a book about their experiences. 
96-00 The character goes out for lunch or dinner with another character.

73



The Campaign

The News Reports Current Colony Trends
The progress of your colony will be reported The colonists tend to develop their own 
back to the Core worlds. Sometimes, this habits. You can roll to determine what the 
reporting will be for a specific purpose, other current fad is. 
times it is propaganda, and occasionally it can 
be mean-spirited. Colony Trend subtable 1

Roll D100 to determine what is being  D100 TREND

reported on: 01-09 Introduction of new slang terms
10-17 Specific manner of speaking or accent

News Report subtable 1
18-23 Style of dress

D100 NEWS REPORTS 24-30 Musical style
01-08 Current construction projects
09-20 The most recent mission 31-38 Creation of a unique social class 

or relation
21-28 Profiles of typical colonists 39-44 New culinary habits
29-40 Profiles in courage: (a random 45-52 Changing social value

character on your roster) 53-57 Adoption of new theology
41-48 Pop-science story about local wildlife 58-65 New sport or athletic pursuit
49-56 Pop-science story about local plant life 66-71 Trend in media and entertainment
57-64 Interview with colony administration 72-77 Health fad
65-71 Current research projects 78-84 New manner of address or greeting
72-82 Investigative story about most  85-90 Literary style

pressing colony problem
91-95 Home decoration principle

83-90 Investigative story about Unity 
support of colonies 96-00 New personal principles

91-00 Propaganda story about You may roll again to determine how they are 
colonization project received off-world. This process often takes 

You can roll again to determine the slant of  years to play out and you may prefer waiting for 
the article: some of these things to be determined later on.

Colony Trend subtable 2
News Report subtable 2

D100 RECEPTION
D100 ARTICLE SLANT

01-10 Negative, accurate 01-30 Completely ignored

11-15 Negative, hatchet-job 31-40 Dismissed

16-30 Neutral 41-50 Viewed as quaint

31-45 Multi-faceted 51-60 Viewed as romantic

46-60 Factual 61-75 Becomes adopted by trendsetters 
and influencers

61-90 Positive, accurate
91-00 Positive, propaganda 76-90 Becomes adopted by 

counter-culture movement
91-00 Enters mainstream culture

74



The Campaign

The Armory
Your colonists are an exploratory force, not Troopers
gun-slinging mercenaries expecting to suit Each trooper may be given one weapon 
up for war, but they must still be ready to requiring Civilian or Trooper training: 
defend themselves. While the firepower handgun, colonial shotgun, colony rifle, 
below is limited compared to that presented trooper rifle, assault gun, or flame projector.
in Five Parsecs from Home and Five Parsecs: 
Tactics, research and discoveries may yield Grunts
more advanced weapons as you play the Individual grunts are armed with infantry 
campaign game. rifles. If you take a fireteam of at least 3, one 
Note: Some weapons function differently in grunt may take a light machine gun in place 
Planetfall from similarly-named weapons you of their rifle.  
may have experienced in other 5X games. Crew
Each character must be armed for the mission. Crew characters may bring any weapon they 
Each weapon type is limited to certain classes own (imported from another campaign). 
only, as indicated in its traits (see the weapon In addition, they may bring one weapon 
traits list on page 78). requiring Civilian training: handgun, colonial 

shotgun, or colony rifle.
Civvies, Scientists, and Bots
Each character from these classes may be 
given one weapon requiring Civilian training: Campaign Play
handgun, colonial shotgun, or colony rifle. As you progress in the campaign you will receive 

