a perpetual attempt to catalogue everything find a piece of rock to call their own.
scientists lay eyes on.
Many corporations have an interest in 
conducting research in locations where it is 
relatively difficult for competitors to acquire it 
(as well as out of sight of prying eyes, especially 
when conducting illegal research).

83



Colonies

Hazards
During its lifetime, a colony will have to 
weather many challenges and dangers.  
These may result in the colony being destroyed 
or abandoned, while others may inflict long-

lasting damage or change the nature of the 
colony in response to events.

The more common risks are:

Natural / Cosmic Disasters
While survey programs and 
terraforming technology allows 

colonies to be placed in regions that are 
geologically safe, a wide range of disasters 

can strike, especially when a planet exhibits 
unexpected natural phenomena. These can 

Colonial Life range from seismic events, eruptions, or an 
unexpectedly toxic environment.

Depending on the nature of a colony, life can 
vary considerably from oppressive iron-fisted Many worlds exhibit unexpected reactions 
regimes to relatively idyllic experiences. to terraforming, while others harbor secrets 
It is rarely an easy life, however. Many that are not uncovered until someone makes 
colonies are dependent on off-world supplies landfall. Unity doctrine states a world must be 
for survival and disruptions in trade networks surveyed for 10 years prior to any permanent 
can be fatal. colonization, but this is often not adhered to 

in the interests of profit and expansion.
Even if a colony is primarily concerned with a 
function such as military research or mining, Resource Exhaustion
it will usually strive to establish at least a While depletion of a natural resource can 
basic level of self-sufficiency from the local have financial impacts, it can also be life 
environment, if possible. threatening. A self-sufficient colony can 
As a colony grows, it tends to expand and become dependent on external supply if it 
become more complex. A research outpost becomes unable to sustain agriculture or 
might develop a small farming community other food production, for example.
to become self-sustaining. As the population In some cases, formerly independent 
base increases, a civilian economy begins colonies have had to accept protectorate 
to develop which in turn attracts more status from one of the major galactic powers 
colonists and so on. Over the years, the to continue its existence, while others have 
original purpose of the colony may remain, slowly been abandoned except for a few 
or it may slowly disappear, subsumed by remaining die-hards.
the general economic and civilian life that 
develops around it.

84



Colonies

Isolation Strife
The drifting of Galactic travel tunnel points is The most common hazard to a colony tends 
usually predictable, but a world can become to be internal strife. As factions emerge (or 
isolated from easy galactic access. Worlds attempt to secure power) the colony can 
can also become isolated due to political become split, dysfunctional, or even succumb 
circumstances or may even choose isolation to outright fighting. Outside control, such 
for themselves. An isolated world can rapidly as corporate control may suppress internal 
deviate from Unity cultural norms, leading to disputes but often leads to protest, insurrection, 
considerable tension if it is reacquired. or armed conflict against the controlling body.

Invasion While a controlling body is usually incentivized 
In a dangerous galaxy, external threats abound: to avoid damage to infrastructure, the civilian 
K’Erin demands, Converted assaults, and any population is replaceable and appeals to 
number of space-borne horrors may strike. Unity mediation (or peacekeeping) are 
Smaller colonies are also vulnerable to pirates usually submitted in advance of a planned 
and other raiders, with some of the renegade insurrection.
forces in Fringe space having the same military 
force as a small empire. Colonial Security
A successful invasion often results in the colony Security forces are maintained for several 
being destroyed or rendered unviable. purposes: Internal order, protection from 
A colony that falls to the Converted is threat, and as a general, deployable body 
completely taken over, with the remnants with a high degree of readiness. The 
of the crew, dead or alive, turned into more controllers of a colony project will be intent on 
Converted. And many a colony has been wiped managing social unrest, while even peaceful 
out after an unsuspecting deep space trader communities will maintain some level of law 
accidentally brought the Swarm to their world. enforcement presence.

As response times to a distress signal can be 
Dangerous Wildlife slow, colonies must maintain at least token 
A side effect of terraforming on a world with military forces. On an important world, this may 
an active biological eco-system is that it can be conventional Unity (or other) military forces, 
result in runaway evolutionary processes, as the but the standard is some form of colonial 
wildlife and fauna undergo an accelerated (and militia. On Unity worlds, the militia is part of 
unpredictable) pace of development. This effect the Unity military hierarchy though for practical 
is often allowed to play out with an eye towards purposes they tend to operate independently.
future exploitation of resources but can also 
result in distinctly unfriendly creatures. The militia can range from a few squads with 

old hunting weapons to a battalion of well-
Roughly 3% of full-scale terraforming attempts equipped troops substantially equivalent to 
result in what is termed a “Hostile Biosphere” conventional armed forces, depending on the 
where animals, plant life, or both are too wealth and technology available to the colony.
dangerous to permit civilian colonization, 
though with Humans being an intractable Controllers will want to protect their 
species, this rarely prevents attempts. Precursor investments: Colonies in dangerous areas of 
scientists maintain that these reactions are part space may sport corporate security teams, Unity 
of a sort of global psionic defensive mechanism combat detachments, and more, depending on 
by the world as a whole, though Unity psionic who is doing the building. Many worlds hire 
testing has revealed no such evidence. additional forces through mercenary troops.

85



Colonies

Colony Ruins Civilizations Long Gone
Abandoned colonies are not an unusual find The galaxy has been teeming with life since a 
within many star systems. These may originate very early age and many such civilizations have 
from failed colonization attempts, worlds that come and gone, some leaving only elusive 
were abandoned or died out or from more fragments of their passing and others leaving 
mysterious causes. extensive ruins.
In harsh living conditions, a military attack Such sites are usually subject to government 
that is fended off may still inflict enough rules when they are discovered, but until the 
damage that the remnants opt to flee or end authorities can secure the site, any discovery 
up dying from a failure of systems required is likely to result in a frenzy of salvage crews, 
for survival. Other attackers are after the treasure hunters, and eccentrics trying to 
colonists themselves and will leave behind pick the place clean. When local preservation 
the structures. groups, militant colonial nomads, and esoteric 
Such sites attract scavengers, salvage teams cults get involved, the combination can become 
and squatters, all for their own reasons. They violent very quickly. 
also make popular hideouts for criminals. While most such locations are unlikely to have 
Some colony sites will even make ruins of much of value – after all, several thousand years 
older attempts into memorial sites or tourist is likely to degrade all but the most substantial 
attractions depending on the general degree (and resilient) artifacts – there is always a buyer 
of reverence, cunning, or ghoulishness by the interested in whatever can be hauled away 
particular colonial administration. if the prospective treasure hunter can dodge 

other treasure hunters as well as the various 
belligerent locals that are liable to show up and 
take a dim view of the looting.

17

86



Colonies

Colony Integrity and Damage
Your colony may sustain damage from a variety 
of sources such as random events and enemy Colony Damage and Colony Morale
attacks. Preventing enemies from expanding 
too far is key to limiting your risk of colony Seeing their livelihoods directly threatened has 
damage, while a number of buildings you can a dramatic effect on the trust of the colonists. 
construct will help mitigate incoming damage. Any time Integrity drops for any reason, Colony 

Morale drops by the same amount (see page 89). 
Colony Damage represents an array of For example, if you take 4 Colony Damage, you 
concerns: Physical damage to structures, loss of will also lose 4 points of Colony Morale. 
resources, and injury to personnel. 1-2 points 
of damage may be a minor facility operating Damage that is mitigated by factors such as 
at reduced capacity or a few colonists injured, defensive buildings does not affect Morale 
while 7-8 points may represent widespread (seeing the automatic sentry turrets operating  
damage and multiple fatalities. at full capacity is reassuring!).

We do not track damage by individual 
buildings. Instead, the colony sustains damage Repairs
as an entity measured by a numeric value. Your colony has a certain repair capacity 

available. This allows a number of damage 
Colony Integrity points to be repaired each campaign turn, 
A more advanced colony has redundant beginning with 1 point per turn when you 
systems, backup facilities, and extensive begin the campaign. Simply increase Integrity 
procedures in place to deal with emergencies. by the repair amount until Integrity returns to 
This is measured in the Colony Integrity. its maximum value (initially set to 0). 

A brand-new colony always begins with an Repairs can never increase Integrity above the 
Integrity of 0, with certain buildings improving maximum value allowed by the advances and 
your Integrity score. buildings you have achieved. 

Any time your colony sustains Damage, it is 
subtracted from the Integrity total. This can (and Colony Integrity Failure
often will) produce a negative score. If Integrity is negative, you are at risk of 
For example, if you have Integrity 5 and take additional mishaps befalling your colony. In the 
8 points of Colony Damage, you now have an Colony Integrity Step of the campaign turn, if 
Integrity of -3. Integrity is -3 or worse, you must take a test for 

Colony Integrity Failure. 
Some buildings allow mitigation of damage. 
Reduce the amount of Colony Damage you Roll 3D6. If the roll is equal to or below the 
would have taken by the amount of mitigation. negative Integrity score “flipped” (for example 

if Integrity is minus 8, treat it as an 8), you 
If you get a bonus to Integrity during the suffer an Integrity Failure. Consult the score on 
campaign, you increase both the maximum the table below. This means Integrity of -1 or -2 
Integrity score and the current value. For has no risk (as you cannot roll that low on 3D6).
example, if you have a maximum Integrity of 
5 and a current score of -2, a 3-point increase Remember that Colony Damage also affects 
in Integrity would put your new maximum at Colony Morale. 
8 and the current score at 1.

87



Colonies

Integrity Failure table Emergency Repairs
If you are required to roll on this table, you may 

3D6 INTEGRITY FAILURE spend 1 Story Point to avoid doing so. This 
3 -1 Colony Morale does not change the underlying situation, but 
4 -2 Colony Morale hopefully next campaign turn you will be able 

to whittle away at the amount of damage.
5 1 Colony Damage

6 Reduce available Build and Research 
points next turn by 2 each. Raw Materials

7 -3 Colony Morale You may obtain Raw Materials during your 
explorations. These are stockpiled and can be 

8 3 Colony Damage. 
This can be mitigated normally. expended to make emergency repairs. Spend 

1 unit of Raw Material to conduct 1 point of 
9 -5 Colony Morale damage repairs. You can spend up to 3 units of 

A random character on your roster must Raw Materials in one campaign turn.
10 make an injury roll (see page 66); treat 

“Death” as 5 turns of recovery instead. The Death Spiral
Reduce available Build points next turn 

11 by 5. This only affects points earned, Once damage reduces you to around -10 
not any stored or already spent. Integrity or worse, you are at risk of suffering 

increasing damage each campaign turn as 
Reduce available Research points next most rolls for Integrity failure will result in 

12 turn by 5. This only affects points earned, additional negative effects, which may well 
not any stored or already spent. outpace your ability to repair it.

13 4 Colony Damage. 
This can be mitigated normally. Review the building options you have available 

to see if there is anything that can help you 
14 5 Colony Damage. 

This can be mitigated normally. out. Otherwise, getting out into the field and 
doing Exploration missions is 

15 A random character on your roster must often your best bet for 
make an injury roll (see page 66). finding new Raw 

16 5 Colony Damage. Materials.
This cannot be mitigated.

17 A random character on your roster must 
make an injury roll (see page 66).

18 A random character on your roster is slain.

88



Colonies

Colony Morale
Colony life is hard, dangerous, and often lacks Morale Incidents
both prosperity and individuality. Some colony 
administrators run democratic systems, others If Morale reaches -10 or worse during the 
are technocratics, while some function as Colony Morale step of the campaign turn 
corporate boards or military facilities. sequence, an Incident occurs. Roll D100 on the 

table below and apply the result. Morale is set 
Colonists are inherently hardy: Everyone back to 0, as the colonists vent their frustrations 
who signs up is tested to ensure they have and go back to normal (at least for now).
compatible attitudes and are able to cope with 
high degrees of hardship and privation. Add +1 to Political Upheaval every time you 

roll on the Morale Incident table.
However, this does not make colonies immune 
to dissent. A string of poor luck can result in the 
colony developing dissident factions which can The Crisis Check
threaten to burst out into open rebellion. Each time you receive a point of Political 
Likewise, if the colonists feel progress towards Upheaval, you must make a Crisis check. 
the goals of the colony has stalled, their spirits Roll 2D6. If the roll is equal to or below the 
and faith in the administration will deteriorate, amount of Political Upheaval, the colony suffers 
reflected in Morale worsening each campaign a collapse of government and enters a Crisis.
turn. This in turn leads to fallout when groups 
decide to protest their lot in life. Rescue Missions
Tracking Morale You do not have to deduct Morale if your squad 

suffer casualties during a Rescue Mission. 
Colony Morale is tracked on your Colony Instead, you are penalized if the colonists 
Tracking Sheet. It begins at 0. A positive Morale become casualties.
score means everything is fine. A 0 means 
things are okay. If the score is negative, people Personal Appeals
are starting to grumble in the corners. When forced to test for a Morale Incident, you 
Colony Morale is modified as follows: may intervene directly. Spend 1 Story Point 
Every time a casualty is sustained in battle, and count the test result as “nothing happens”. 
Morale is reduced by 1 point. This does not This still sets the Morale score back to 0, so it is a 
apply to any other source of injuries such as potent but precious resource.
during events. Difficulty Adjustments (optional rule)
Each time your colony buildings sustain 
damage, Morale is reduced by 1 point per The Morale system works both as a pacing 
point of Colony Damage. Mitigated damage mechanic as well as a potential failure state. If 
and damage assigned to “damage sink” you find that you would rather play a game that 
buildings does not reduce Morale. is less punishing, omit the Crisis test or allow BP 

and RP to be accumulated during a Crisis. (The 
Each campaign turn, Morale is reduced by 1 latter can be particularly appealing if you are 
automatically. It’s a tough life. near the end of the game. You will know whether 
Several events in the game can modify Morale you would enjoy the increased risk of the colony 
up or down. There is no maximum Morale. possibly collapsing at the critical moment).

89



Colonies

Morale Incident table

D100 INCIDENT DESCRIPTION

01-10 Character loyalty loss A random character on your roster loses one level of Loyalty.
Widespread protests hit the colony. Select a trooper that is unable to 

11-25 Protests undertake any missions next campaign turn. If you have to fight a 
Pitched Battle, the protests recede, and the trooper can take part normally.

26-35 Sabotage A dissident conducts large scale sabotage, causing 1D6 Colony Damage. 
This cannot be mitigated by buildings that normally mitigate damage.

36-55 Work stoppage You suffer a -3 penalty to any BP and RP earned this campaign turn, 
though this will not affect points already spent.

Your scout teams are redirected to focus on threats close to the colony.
Each campaign turn, assign any number of scouts or troopers to supervise 

56-75 Colonist demands security. They cannot take part in any missions except for Pitched Battles. 
For each character, roll 1D6+Savvy with a 5+ indicating the demands 

have been satisfied. Otherwise, they continue.
Administration is faced with a political challenge to its authority such as 

76-00 Political strife dissident groups, rival claims for administration, or secretive factions: 
Make a Crisis check (see below). 

Crisis Outcome table

2D6 OUTCOME DESCRIPTION

Make another Crisis check using 2D6. If the result is equal to or below the 
2-3 High tensions amount of Political Upheaval, the colony collapses into open rebellion, 

and your campaign ends. See “Campaign Failure”, below.  
If the roll is higher, add +1 Political Upheaval.

4-5 Deteriorating If you successfully completed a mission this turn, no changes occur. 
conditions If you failed a mission, add +1 Political Upheaval.

6-7 Deadlock No agreement is reached, and no progress is made. 

8-10 Building bridges -1 to Political Upheaval. If this reduces the total to 0, treat as 
“Agreements reached” (below). 

11-12 Agreements reached The crisis ends. Political upheaval and Morale are set to 0.

While in Crisis, Colony Morale is fixed at 0 and Campaign Failure
cannot be changed for any reason. All modifiers If the Crisis Outcome results in campaign 
are ignored. All sources of Research Points, failure, Unity forces move in to secure the site 
Build Points. or Raw Materials provide 1 point and take over control. Players of Five Parsecs 
less than usual during a Crisis. from Home: Tactics may enjoy playing out a 
Each campaign turn, during the Colony Morale combat campaign set on your former colony, 
Adjustments step, roll 2D6 to determine the while others may take some of their loyal (or 
outcome of the Crisis. A Story Point may be disloyal!) characters and set off into a Five 
spent to roll twice and pick the better score. Parsecs from Home adventure.

90



Colonies

18

Research

Research Basics The Research Process
To succeed on a new world, you will need new Conducting Research is done through 
and improved technologies, weapons, and Research Points (RP). Your colony receives 
tools. Many of these will be based on local 1 RP per campaign turn by default. Various 
conditions, problems, and available materials. factors will grant additional points or increase 
We call this process Research in game terms. the rate per turn.
In the Research step of the campaign turn, All RP earned are tallied up and added to any 
you can pursue scientific advances. There are you have currently accumulated. You may then 
three types: spend RP to “buy” advances. You can spend RP 

on multiple items in the same campaign turn. 
◆	 Theories are broader fields used to unlock 

new technologies. You may obtain additional RP through Post-
Battle Finds and random events. These are 

◆	 Applications provide specific benefits, 
whether in combat or when managing  one-use bonus points and are deleted when 
your colony. they are spent. 

Note that many items will cost more than what 
◆	 You can also pursue Bio-Analysis of hostile 

Lifeforms located on the planet. you can afford in a single campaign turn. In this 
case note down how many RP you have already 
spent. Once the full cost has been paid, the 
advance is made.

91



Colonies

Bio-Analysis Research Theories and Applications
Cost: 3 Research Points You may spend RP on any Theories you have 
You may research any Lifeform on your currently unlocked. 
campaign encounter chart to help find a more When you begin the campaign, the following 
effective way to combat the creatures. Theories are available:
This is effective against Lifeforms but not ◆	 AI Theories
against other foes such as Tactical Enemies, the ◆	 Advanced Manufacturing
Slyn, or the Sleeper robots. ◆	 Environmental Research
You must collect a sample from the Lifeform in ◆	 Genetic Advancement
question by successfully completing a Hunt ◆	 Infantry Equipment
mission. ◆	 Military Doctrine

◆	 Social Theories
Once a sample has been collected, you may ◆	 Theoretical Physics
conduct Bio-Analysis by spending 3 Research 
Points. Roll 1D6 on the table below to Five more Theories list prerequisites: Theories 
determine the benefit gained. The indicated that must be fully researched before the new 
benefit is applied whenever you do combat Theory becomes available. They include:
with the specific Lifeform in the future. ◆	 Adapted Combat Gear 
If the profile of the Lifeform ever changes for (prerequisite: Infantry Equipment)
any reason, including evolution, any Bio- ◆	 Environmental Adaptation 
Analysis benefits are lost. You can analyze the (prerequisite: Environmental Research)
new form of the creature by following the same ◆	 High Level Adaptation 
process again. This will produce a new benefit (prerequisite: Genetic Advancement)
rolled below. ◆	 Non-Linear Physics 

(prerequisite: Theoretical Physics)
◆	 Psionic Engineering 

(prerequisite: Genetic Advancement)

Bio-Analysis Table

D6 BIO-ANALYSIS DESCRIPTION

1 Hit bonus Analysis of evasive measures improves hit rates. 
All ranged attacks against the Lifeform receive +1 to hit.

2 Brawling bonus Development of close quarter techniques. 
All brawling combat against the Lifeform receives +1 to the roll.

Knowledge of vulnerable locations. 
3 Critical hits If both the hit and damage roll is a natural 6, the creature is slain 

regardless of KP, Saving Throws, or other defenses.
Improved understanding of weak points. Reduce any Saving Throws the 

4 Defensive reduction creature has by 1 step. If the creature does not have a Saving Throw, 
treat as a +1 Hit Bonus to all attacks against the creature.

5 Defensive bonus Better understanding of the attack forms of the creature. All characters 
receive a 6+ Saving Throw against all attacks from the Lifeform.

6 Predictive movement You understand how the creature moves and can anticipate it in combat. 
Reduce the movement speed of the Lifeform by 1”. 

92



Colonies

