
access to improved weaponry. Note that having 
Scouts access to improved items does not remove 
Each scout may be given one weapon the original items. Not every upgraded item is 
requiring Civilian or Scout training: handgun, strictly better in every regard, and you are free to 
colonial shotgun, colony rifle, or scout pistol. use either option for a mission.

75



The Campaign

Campaign Armory Standard Weapon Types
As you progress in the campaign you will Handgun 
receive access to interesting new weapons and A standard issue semi-automatic pistol with a 
gear. Some of these are based on technologies high-capacity magazine. 
you discover on the new world, others are 
improvisations made from locally available Range:	 6”
hardware. Where this is the case, new options Shots:	 1
list the prerequisites to develop them. This is Damage:	 +0
both the research required to develop the item Trait:	 Civilian, Pistol
and the Item Tier it belongs to. Colonial shotgun 
Tier 1 upgrades require that you have built the Shotguns have limited range, but the blast of 
Advanced Manufacturing Plant (see page 98), pellets can inflict significant damage at close 
while Tier 2 upgrades also require the High- range. 
Tech Manufacturing Plant (page 100). Range:	 12”
Once these conditions are met, the weapon Shots:	 1
is available for use immediately and in any Damage:	 +0
quantity needed. Trait:	 Civilian, Critical
Some characters do not have the training to be 
granted some weapons during a mission load- Colony rifle 
out. Each item has a class type (or types) listed A mass produced semi-automatic rifle issued to 
as a trait (Civilian, Scout, Trooper, etc). Check the colonists for self-defense and hunting.
weapon trait listing (page 78), as some classes Range:	 18”
can use weapons with traits other than just Shots:	 1
their own class title (for example, troopers can Damage:	 +0
use Trooper and Civilian weapons). Trait:	 Civilian
Note: while some new weapons are modified 
versions of existing ones, weapons are not Scout pistol 
replaced in the campaign, and you can always A long barrel, stabilized handgun used by the 
pick and choose for each character and mission. explorer service. 

While many new weapons are superior, Range:	 9”
some have new drawbacks or are superior Shots:	 1
situationally but not universally. Damage:	 +0

Trait:	 Scout, Pistol, Stabilized
Each weapon has the following profile:
Range: The range in tabletop inches. Targets Infantry rifle 
cannot be selected beyond this range. Standard Unity automatic rifle. Renowned for 

being “soldier proof” in terms of ruggedness 
Shots: How many attack dice are rolled. and reliability.
Damage: This is added to the die roll when Range:	 24”
rolling to overcome the target’s Toughness. Shots:	 1
Traits: Some weapons have additional Damage:	 +0
traits that modify their function or define Trait:	 Grunt
prerequisites. These weapons traits are defined 
at the end of the weapons list.

76



The Campaign

Light machine gun Tier 1 Upgrades
Automatic weapon fed from an ammunition 
box or belt. Capable of long-range fire due  Shard pistol  
to bipod attachment and effective against  Fires a hail of microscopic shrapnel, cutting the 
both groups of enemies and individual target to shreds.  
tough targets. Range:	 9”
Range:	 36” / 12” Shots:	 2
Shots:	 3 / 4 Damage:	 +1
Damage:	 +0 Traits:	 Trooper, Tier 1, Focused, Pistol
Trait:	 Grunt, Cumbersome, Hail of Fire Ripper pistol 
Trooper rifle A needle-based modification based on the 
High precision military rifle that fires a range existing Scout pistol. Optimizes firing speed at 
of small caliber ammunition at a high rate the cost of accuracy.
of fire. The version issued to expeditionary Range:	 9”
forces features “Slammer” armor piercing Shots:	 2
ammunition. The recoil is fierce, but it is Damage:	 +0
capable of bringing down even the  Traits:	 Scout, Tier 1, Pistol
toughest targets. 
Range:	 30” Kill-Break shotgun 
Shots:	 1 A massive shotgun firing a gravity-charged 
Damage:	 +0 slug. 
Trait:	 Trooper, AP Ammo Range:	 12”

Shots:	 1
Assault gun Damage:	 +2
Support weapon carried by troopers and Traits:	 Trooper, Tier 1, Knockback
usually fired from an arm or hip mounted 
attachment making the recoil (barely) Steady rifle 
manageable. Fires bursts from an ammunition Anti-recoil mechanisms added to the standard 
box or belt. colony rifle to make them more capable field 
Range:	 18” weapons. 
Shots:	 2 Range:	 24”
Damage:	 +0 Shots:	 1
Trait:	 Trooper Damage:	 +0

Traits:	 Civilian, Tier 1, Stabilized
Flame projector 
A favorite for bug hunting, this unleashes a Carver blade 
stream of burning chemicals that can melt A heavy cutting blade for hand-to-hand combat.
through almost any type of armor plating or 
bug hide. Range:	 brawling only

Shots:	 –
Range:	 6” Damage:	 +2
Shots:	 – Traits:	 Civilian, Tier 1, Flexible, Melee
Damage:	 +1
Traits:	 Trooper, Stream, Burning

77



The Campaign

Tier 2 Upgrades Weapon Traits
Bio-gun AP Ammo: If stationary, the shooter may add 
Genetically targeted area of effect bio-weapon. +1 to damage. 
Best of all the ammunition is made completely 
organically with no use of pesticides. Area: Select a target point in range and sight. 

Each enemy within 2” is hit on a D6 roll of 4+. 
Range:	 12” Cover provides no protection. The bio-gun does 
Shots:	 Special not affect your own characters.
Damage:	 +1
Traits:	 Trooper, Tier 2, Area Armor-piercing: Ignore Armor Saving Throws.

Burning: Negates Saving Throws.
Mind-link pistol 
A pistol that is bio-linked to the mind of Civilian: Open to all classes except grunts.
someone capable of interpreting para-psionic Critical: A natural 6 to hit inflicts 2 hits on the 
flows below 2.7 KX units. In other words, nerds. target figure. 
Range:	 9” Cumbersome: Range is reduced to 12” when 
Shots:	 1 moving and firing.
Damage:	 +0
Traits:	 Scientist, Tier 2, Mind-link Flexible: A character with this weapon can carry 

a handgun at the same time.
Phase rifle Focused: Both shots must be fired at the same 
A rapid-fire rifle relying on ammunition that target.	
can phase through minor obstacles. Grunt: Restricted to grunt-class characters.
Range:	 16”
Shots:	 1 Hail of Fire: If all shots are aimed at the same 
Damage:	 +1 target figure, 4 shots may be fired.
Traits:	 Scout, Tier 2, Phased Fire Hyperfire: If a hit does not destroy the target, 

the trooper may immediately fire again at the 
Dart pistol same target. Continue until a shot misses or the 
The use of bio-flechettes allow this sidearm target is destroyed.
to be compact, easy to use and capable of 
penetrating almost any protection. Knockback: A target that survives a hit is 

knocked Sprawling (see page 38).
Range:	 9”
Shots:	 1 Melee: +2 bonus when used as a brawling 
Damage:	 +1 weapon.
Traits:	 Civilian, Tier 2, Armor-piercing Mind-link: Roll to hit using Savvy instead of 

Combat Skill. As this is a Savvy test, a scientist 
Hyper-rifle may roll twice and pick the best.
By linking bio-signatures to the weapon, hails 
of devastating fire are possible. Phased fire: The target receives no benefits 

from cover or scatter terrain. The target must be 
Range:	 16” visible, however.
Shots:	 1
Damage:	 +1 Pistol: +1 weapon bonus when brawling.
Traits:	 Trooper, Tier 2, Hyperfire Scout: Restricted to scout-class characters.

78



The Campaign

Stabilized: If the shooter does not move,  Ammo packs 
+1 to hit. The difficulty of supplying long range missions 
Stream: Draw a straight line 6” long and 1” leads to new methods for transporting 
wide from the firer. Any figure (including allies) ammunition.
that is touched by the line is hit automatically Prerequisite: Military barracks, Grunt
with no roll required. Once per battle you may roll an extra die to hit 
Tier 1: To access this, your colony must have for every grunt in the fireteam. The bonus die 
built the Advanced Manufacturing Plant. must be used in the same battle round; you 
Tier 2: To access this, your colony must have cannot save it up for some grunts and use it 
built the High-Tech Manufacturing Plant. for others.

Trooper: Restricted to trooper-class characters. Side arms 
The danger of wildlife necessitates the carrying 

Grunt Upgrades of personal weaponry for all ranks.

These items benefit your grunt fireteams Prerequisite: Shard pistol, Grunt
and become available when their listed All grunts carry a handgun in addition to their 
prerequisites – often a Building or Research normal weapons.
type – are met.

Sergeant weaponry 
Sharpshooter sight Soldiers worried about aggressive bio-forms 
Simple optical sight, modified to resist the begin to copy boarding teams in carrying blade 
volatile environment. weapons whenever possible.
Prerequisite: Early warning system, Grunt Prerequisite: Carver blade, Grunt
One grunt per fireteam may have a gun sight. One grunt per fireteam receives a Damage 
This adds +1 to hit when stationary. +1 Melee weapon in addition to their other 
May be fitted to military rifle only. weapons.

Adapted armor 
Local plant material modified into providing Compatibility Notes
effective protection against local hazards. Players of other Five Parsecs titles will notice 
Prerequisite: Locally adapted food production that the weapons given do not always have the 
site, Grunt same profile and traits as in other titles. This 
All grunts receive a 6+ Saving Throw. is intentional, representing modified versions 

issued to colonist expeditions.
Bolstered survival kit 
Local biomaterial which can be adapted into 
emergency medical supplies.
Prerequisite: Immune System Bio-delineation, 
Grunt
When testing for post-mission grunt survival, 
only a roll of a 1 is counted as a permanent 
casualty.

79



The Campaign

Enemies Among Us
Theodora called up the depot’s inventory report She pushed the button on her wrist 
again. It was clever, she had to admit. communicator. A moment later, Simmons 
The missing items didn’t look suspicious at strode in, looking somewhat self-conscious in 
first: Petty things, black market resalable value, an ill-fitting uniform. 
but in small enough quantities not to awake “Ma’am, what can…” he began. Theodora cut 
suspicion. Warehouse workers usually got by on him off with a hand-wave.
graft, but among the regular minor stuff, these 
other items added up to improvised explosives “Run the shuttle crash report by me again”
– and a disconcerting amount, too. Running the “Ma’am, the data is—”
numbers for the past quarter, there was enough 
missing to demolish an entire building. Theodora beetled her eyebrows – enough to 

stop him. The young man sighed and recited 
She closed the database and reached for her the information again. Young field agents were 
pen and notepad. Her Agency coworkers had always so diligent. 
made fun of her for keeping an old-fashioned 
habit, but it was the one thing that couldn’t “Shuttle struck by small arms ground fire 
be hacked. If the colony was housing a terror and crashed ... No survivors found ... Pirates 
group, that would be an essential precaution. suspected.” As Simmons rattled off the 

information, Theodora doodled on the notepad, 
The obvious question was “Who?”, but time and raising her gaze only when the report was done.
data would provide clues. The real question was 
“Why?” Separatists? Zealots of some type? Both “So, what’s your conclusion, Simmons?”
were possible, but something wasn’t adding Simmons worked up some courage: “I think the 
up. Terror groups would usually aim to strike a security report is wrong. They said pirates but... I 
population center, but the suspicious sightings checked the logs. No off-world jump signal”.
were all transport and communications related. Theodora nodded, folding the notepad, and 
Corporate sabotage? Unlikely. A hostile takeover slowly stood up. 
of a Unity-funded colony was bold, even for a 
mega-corp. They’d want the facilities intact, too. “Simmons, requisition a scout drop. We’re 

going to have a look for ourselves.”

80



Colonies

Colonies

A Colonial Briefing
Colonization, as defined by Unity law, is the Cost and Scale
process of establishing a new, permanent 
population base on a world with no current The cost and effort involved in colonization 
sentient life. This does not mean that is immense. If terraforming is required, the 
settlements are not created on populated staggering costs are usually associated with 
worlds, but those fall under either co- either strict major power control or mega-
existence agreements, hostile acquisition, or corporate ownership leading to a de-facto 
flat-out invasion. corporate state when the colony is founded.

Colonization can occur for several reasons Often, secondary settlement agreements are 
but, unless a prospective world happens to sold off to interested parties, typically dispersed 
be supportive of the species in question, across the planetary surface. Independent 
terraforming is required, demanding a groups, usually with a wealthy benefactor, can 
substantial amount of monetary investment. pool together resources to acquire colonization 
Most colonization is planned by mega rights on an already inhabitable planet, but 
corporations or major galactic power bases it is more common to purchase settlement 
who can fund the effort in expectation of future on a corporate world. This is a popular option 
returns on that investment. with splinter groups, political renegades and 

religious communities.
The major galactic powers lay claim to several 
unpopulated systems in anticipation of future When worlds are assessed for terraforming 
colonization and, while treaties are clear viability, they are given a numerical grade from 
regarding the legality of such claims, a general 0 to 100 indicating the effort required to make 
level of localized military action is accepted in them viable for organic habitation. This roughly 
galactic politics. In practice, a claim is rarely corresponds to 1 year of required terraforming 
stronger than the ability and willingness of for every point short of 100.
a galactic power to enforce it, and resolution While not every species has the same life 
through military action is often seen as support requirements, the species of the 
preferable to a drawn-out legal process. The major powers share sufficiently common 
K’Erin, in particular, often engage in military characteristics that terraforming machinery is 
action to contest land claims. This can be a rarely species-specific (customers can request 
dangerous gamble as the colonists are as likely specialized modules).
to fight their brethren as they are any Human 
claimants, but the K’Erin don’t necessarily view A world with some traces of atmosphere and 
the ensuing war as a negative outcome. gravity within typical parameters (0.8 to 1.2 G 

by Earth measurements) is usually assessed at 
a rating of 70-75.

81



Colonies

Opposition This is not the only reason a world can fall 
Colonial settlements can meet opposition from under interdiction. Whether to contain an 
a range of sources: There are many Pristine outbreak of a virulent disease or for more 
Galaxy and de-humanization movements that clandestine reasons, Unity may place a 
seek to limit expansion of colonies, some of world under quarantine, enforced by sentry 
which are willing to turn to terrorist acts to platforms or active naval patrols. While this is 
achieve their aims. Meanwhile, the mixture of typically intended to be for a distinct length 
political and corporate interests can make any of time, requests to lift the quarantine often 
specific settlement hotly contested. Shooting go unnoticed in the Bureaucracy and, in a few 
wars between corporate armies for the fate of a instances, a fully inhabited colony has found 
promising chunk of rock are not uncommon. itself mistakenly interdicted, functionally 

isolating it from the rest of the galaxy.

Hostile Zones Colony Types
Settlement along the K’Erin / Unity boundaries 
are almost always contested militarily and Colonies are constructed for an array of 
any new colonization attempt must be purposes but can broadly be categorized  
accompanied by considerable military force. as follows:
The fact that distinguishing between “civilian Resource Extraction
colony” and “heavy armed military base” 
is difficult in K’Erin space has led to several The most immediate way of getting a return 
shooting wars in the past. on investment is through the extraction of 

resources, mineral or otherwise. Due to the 
The Precursors maintain a sector of space near significant cost of transporting large amounts 
the galactic center into which they strictly of materials off world, this is primarily of value 
prohibit incursions. The reason this area on planets where rare resources can be found 
is being safeguarded is only known to the in large quantities, though many colonies 
highest-ranking members of the Precursor begin as resource extraction facilities before 
navy, but any attempts to cross the sector transitioning into a different type over time.
boundaries in either direction are met with 
immediate attack, if detected. Production
Whatever the reason, a Precursor naval Manufacturing allows the creation of an 
officer can only ever do a single two-year economic basis for a colony and is often one of 
tour of duty in the region. As a result, in the earliest functions to be established. Many 
recent years, Soulless ships have been seen colonies are primarily industrial hubs, and 
carrying out patrols as well, seemingly with some remain that way indefinitely.
the understanding and cooperation of the In some cases, planetary conditions can aid 
Precursors. manufacture of specific goods, allowing the 
Worlds that are near Horde- or Converted- new colony a competitive advantage. Of course, 
contested space are not typically approved for being able to manufacture legally or ethically 
colonization and access to such worlds may suspect goods well out of sight is a competitive 
be subject to Unity naval interdiction. After all, advantage all on its own, leading to many 
each failed colony means more resources and mysterious industrial outposts heavily patrolled 
recruits for the enemy. This does not stop the by corporate troops.
foolhardy, however, and rogue expeditions are 
not unheard of.

82



Colonies

16

Population Outpost
Some colonies are established primarily for the Outposts can serve several purposes, but the 
purpose of new living space, especially when term generally refers to an installation with 
established by government bodies. This is also a limited population and not designed to 
the primary type of independent colony found produce anything of financial or intellectual 
across the galaxy. Most colonies will transition value. They are often military refueling bases 
to this type over time when a significant or staging grounds, various scanning and 
population base has started to develop, and a communication facilities, and similar. A wide 
more nuanced economy exists. array can be found almost anywhere you look 

in space, with many being installed on moons 
Research or particularly large asteroids for ease of access.
As the cost of establishing an advanced 
laboratory in a remote location is considerable, Isolation
this tends to be of interest mainly if the planet A key factor for many minor and independent 
has promising or peculiar characteristics colonies is the desire to be where nobody 
or resides in a system with strange cosmic else is around. Isolationist enclaves, zealot 
phenomena. Unity-founded research facilities organizations, and all manner of idealistic 
can be found littering all manner of worlds in communities gather everything they have and 
a perpetual attempt to catalogue everything find a piece of rock to call their own.
